# $isoDayOfWeek (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $isoDayOfWeek (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $isoDayOfWeek Returns the weekday number in ISO 8601 format, ranging from 1 (for Monday) to 7 (for Sunday). The $isoDayOfWeek expression has the following operator expression syntax : { $isoDayOfWeek : < dateExpression > } The argument can be: An expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp , or an ObjectID . A document with this format: { date : < dateExpression > , timezone : < tzExpression > } Field Description date The date to which the operator is applied. <dateExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp ,
or an ObjectID . timezone Optional. The timezone of the operation result. <tzExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a string formatted as either
an Olson Timezone Identifier or a UTC Offset .
If no timezone is provided, the result is in UTC. Format Examples Olson Timezone Identifier "America/New_York" "Europe/London" "GMT" UTC Offset +/-[hh]:[mm], e.g. "+04:45" +/-[hh][mm], e.g. "-0530" +/-[hh], e.g. "+03" Behavior Example Result { $isoDayOfWeek : new Date ( "2016-01-01" ) } 5 { $isoDayOfWeek : { date : new Date ( "Jan 7, 2003" ) } } 2 { $isoDayOfWeek : { date : new Date ( "August 14, 2011" ) , timezone : "America/Chicago" } } 7 { $isoDayOfWeek : ISODate ( "1998-11-07T00:00:00Z" ) } 6 { $isoDayOfWeek : { date : ISODate ( "1998-11-07T00:00:00Z" ) , timezone : "-0400" } } 5 { $isoDayOfWeek : "March 28, 1976" } error { $isoDayOfWeek : Date ( "2016-01-01" ) } error { $isoDayOfWeek : "2009-04-09" } error Note $isoDayOfWeek cannot take a string as an argument. Example A collection called birthdays contains the following documents: db. birthdays . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , name : "Betty" , birthday : ISODate ( "1993-09-21T00:00:00Z" ) } , { _id : 2 , name : "Veronica" , birthday : ISODate ( "1981-11-07T00:00:00Z" ) } ] ) The following operation returns the weekday number for each birthday field. db. birthdays . aggregate ( [ { $project : { _id : 0 , name : "$name" , dayOfWeek : { $isoDayOfWeek : "$birthday" } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: [ { name : "Betty" , dayOfWeek : 2 } , { name : "Veronica" , dayOfWeek : 6 } ] Tip See also: $isoWeekYear (aggregation) $isoWeek (aggregation) Back $isNumber Next $isoWeek
