# $bottomN (aggregation accumulator) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $bottomN (aggregation accumulator) On this page Definition Syntax Behavior Restrictions Examples Definition $bottomN New in version 5.2 . Returns an aggregation of the bottom n elements within a group,
according to the specified sort order. If the group contains fewer
than n elements, $bottomN returns all elements in the group. Syntax { $bottomN: { n: <expression>, sortBy: { <field1>: <sort order>, <field2>: <sort order> ... }, output: <expression> } } n limits the number of results per group and has to be a positive
integral expression that is either a constant or depends on the _id value for $group . sortBy specifies the order of results, with syntax similar to $sort . output represents the output for each element in the group and can
be any expression. Behavior Null and Missing Values $bottomN does not filter out null values. $bottomN converts missing values to null which are preserved in
the output. db. aggregate ( [ { $documents : [ { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G1" , score : 1 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G1" , score : 2 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G1" , score : 3 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G1" } , { playerId : "PlayerE" , gameId : "G1" , score : null } ] } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $bottomN : { output : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , sortBy : { "score" : - 1 } , n : 3 } } } } ] ) In this example: $documents creates the literal documents that contain
player scores. $group groups the documents by gameId . This
example has only one gameId , G1 . PlayerD has a missing score and PlayerE has a
null score . These values are both considered as null. The playerId and score fields are specified as output : ["$playerId"," $score"] and returned as array values. Because of the sortBy: { "score" : -1 } , the null values are sorted
to the end of the returned playerId array. [ { _id : "G1" , playerId : [ [ "PlayerA" , 1 ] , [ "PlayerD" , null ] , [ "PlayerE" , null ] ] } ] BSON Data Type Sort Ordering When sorting different types, the order of BSON data types is used to determine ordering. As an example,
consider a collection whose values consist of strings and numbers. In an ascending sort, string values are sorted after numeric values. In a descending sort, string values are sorted before numeric values. db. aggregate ( [ { $documents : [ { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G1" , score : 1 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G1" , score : "2" } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G1" , score : "" } ] } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $bottomN : { output : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , sortBy : { "score" : - 1 } , n : 3 } } } } ] ) In this example: PlayerA has an integer score. PlayerB has a string "2" score. PlayerC has an empty string score. Because the sort is in descending { "score" : -1 } , the string
literal values are sorted before PlayerA 's numeric score: [ { _id : "G1" , playerId : [ [ "PlayerB" , "2" ] , [ "PlayerC" , "" ] , [ "PlayerA" , 1 ] ] } ] Restrictions Window Function and Aggregation Expression Support $bottomN is not supported as a aggregation expression . $bottomN is supported as a window operator . Memory Limit Considerations Groups within the $bottomN aggregation pipeline are subject to the 100 MB limit pipeline limit. If this
limit is exceeded for an individual group, the aggregation fails
with an error. Examples Consider a gamescores collection with the following documents: db. gamescores . insertMany ( [ { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G1" , score : 31 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G1" , score : 33 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G1" , score : 99 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G1" , score : 1 } , { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G2" , score : 10 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G2" , score : 14 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G2" , score : 66 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G2" , score : 80 } ]) Find the Three Lowest Scores You can use the $bottomN accumulator to find the lowest scoring
players in a single game. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $match : { gameId : "G1" } } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $bottomN : { output : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , sortBy : { "score" : - 1 } , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $match to filter the results on a single gameId .
In this case, G1 . Uses $group to group the results by gameId . In this
case, G1 . Uses sort by { "score": -1 } to sort the results in descending
order. Specifies the fields that are output from $bottomN with output : ["$playerId"," $score"] . Uses $bottomN to return the bottom three documents
with the lowest score for the G1 game with n : 3 . The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : "G1" , playerId : [ [ "PlayerB" , 33 ] , [ "PlayerA" , 31 ] , [ "PlayerD" , 1 ] ] } ] The SQL equivalent to this query is: SELECT T3.GAMEID,T3.PLAYERID,T3.SCORE FROM GAMESCORES AS GS JOIN ( SELECT TOP 3 GAMEID,PLAYERID,SCORE FROM GAMESCORES WHERE GAMEID = "G1" ORDER BY SCORE) AS T3 ON GS.GAMEID = T3.GAMEID GROUP BY T3.GAMEID,T3.PLAYERID,T3.SCORE ORDER BY T3.SCORE DESC Finding the Three Lowest Score Documents Across Multiple Games You can use the $bottomN accumulator to find the lowest scoring
players in each game. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $bottomN : { output : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , sortBy : { "score" : - 1 } , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $group to group the results by gameId . Specifies the fields that are output from $bottomN with output : ["$playerId", "$score"] . Uses sort by { "score": -1 } to sort the results in descending
order. Uses $bottomN to return the bottom three documents
with the lowest score for each game with n: 3 . The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : "G1" , playerId : [ [ "PlayerB" , 33 ] , [ "PlayerA" , 31 ] , [ "PlayerD" , 1 ] ] } , { _id : "G2" , playerId : [ [ "PlayerC" , 66 ] , [ "PlayerB" , 14 ] , [ "PlayerA" , 10 ] ] } ] The SQL equivalent to this query is: SELECT PLAYERID,GAMEID,SCORE FROM ( SELECT ROW_NUMBER ( ) OVER ( PARTITION BY GAMEID ORDER BY SCORE DESC ) AS GAMERANK, GAMEID,PLAYERID,SCORE FROM GAMESCORES ) AS T WHERE GAMERANK >= 2 ORDER BY GAMEID Computing n Based on the Group Key for $group You can also assign the value of n dynamically. In this example,
the $cond expression is used on the gameId field. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : { "gameId" : "$gameId" } , gamescores : { $bottomN : { output : "$score" , n : { $cond : { if : { $eq : [ "$gameId" , "G2" ] } , then : 1 , else : 3 } } , sortBy : { "score" : - 1 } } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Use $group to group the results by gameId . Specifies the fields that are output from $bottomN with output : "$score" . If the gameId is G2 then n is 1, otherwise n is 3. Uses sort by { "score": -1 } to sort the results in descending
order. The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : { gameId : "G2" } , gamescores : [ 10 ] } , { _id : { gameId : "G1" } , gamescores : [ 33 , 31 , 1 ] } ] Back $bottom Next $bsonSize
