# $atan (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $atan (aggregation) On this page Behavior Example $atan Returns the inverse tangent (arc tangent) of a value. $atan has the following syntax: { $atan : < expression > } $atan takes any valid expression that resolves to a number. $atan returns values in radians. Use $radiansToDegrees operator to convert the output value
from radians to degrees. By default $atan returns values as a double . $atan can also return values as a 128-bit decimal as long as the <expression> resolves to a 128-bit decimal value. For more information on expressions, see Expression Operators . Behavior null and NaN If the argument resolves to a value of null or refers to a field
that is missing, $atan returns null . If the
argument resolves to NaN , $tan returns NaN . Example Results { $atan: NaN } NaN { $atan: null } null Example Inverse Tangent of Value in Degrees Inverse Tangent of Value in Radians The trigonometry collection contains a document that
stores three sides of a right-angle triangle: { "_id" : ObjectId( "5c50782193f833234ba90d85" ), "side_a" : NumberDecimal( "3" ), "side_b" : NumberDecimal( "4" ), "hypotenuse" : NumberDecimal( "5" ) } The following aggregation operation uses the $atan expression to calculate the angle adjacent
to side_a and add it to the input document using the $addFields pipeline stage. db.trigonometry.aggregate([ { $addFields : { "angle_a" : { $radiansToDegrees : { $atan : { $divide : [ " $side_b " , " $side_a " ] } } } } } ]) The $radiansToDegrees expression converts the
radian value returned by $atan to the equivalent
value in degrees. The command returns the following output: { "_id" : ObjectId( "5c50782193f833234ba90d85" ), "side_a" : NumberDecimal( "3" ), "side_b" : NumberDecimal( "4" ), "hypotenuse" : NumberDecimal( "5" ), "angle_a" : NumberDecimal( "53.13010235415597870314438744090658" ) } Since side_b and side_a are stored as 128-bit decimals , the output of $atan is a 128-bit decimal. The trigonometry collection contains a document that
stores three sides of a right-angle triangle: { "_id" : ObjectId( "5c50782193f833234ba90d85" ), "side_a" : NumberDecimal( "3" ), "side_b" : NumberDecimal( "4" ), "hypotenuse" : NumberDecimal( "5" ) } The following aggregation operation uses the $atan expression to calculate the angle adjacent
to side_a and add it to the input document using the $addFields pipeline stage. db.trigonometry.aggregate([ { $addFields : { "angle_a" : { $atan : { $divide : [ " $side_b " , " $side_a " ] } } } } ]) The command returns the following output: { "_id" : ObjectId( "5c50782193f833234ba90d85" ), "side_a" : NumberDecimal( "3" ), "side_b" : NumberDecimal( "4" ), "hypotenuse" : NumberDecimal( "5" ), "angle_a" : NumberDecimal( "0.9272952180016122324285124629224287" ) } Since side_b and side_a are stored as 128-bit decimals , the output of $atan is a 128-bit decimal. Back $asinh Next $atan2
