# $regexMatch (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $regexMatch (aggregation) On this page Definition Syntax Behavior Examples Definition $regexMatch Performs a regular expression (regex) pattern matching and returns: true if a match exists. false if a match doesn't exist. Syntax The $regexMatch operator has the following syntax: { $regexMatch : { input : < expression > , regex : < expression > , options : < expression > } } Field Description input The string on which you wish to apply the regex pattern .
Can be a string or any valid expression that resolves to a string. regex The regex pattern to apply. Can be any valid expression that resolves to either a string or regex
pattern /<pattern>/ . When using the regex /<pattern>/ , you
can also specify the regex options i and m (but not the s or x options): "pattern" /<pattern>/ /<pattern>/<options> Alternatively, you can also specify the regex options with the options field. To specify the s or x options, you
must use the options field. You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. options Optional . The following <options> are available for use
with regular expression. You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. Option Description i Case insensitivity to match both upper and lower cases. You
can specify the option in the options field or as part of
the regex field. m For patterns that include anchors (i.e. ^ for the start, $ for the end), match at the beginning or end of each
line for strings with multiline values. Without this option,
these anchors match at beginning or end of the string. If the pattern contains no anchors or if the string value has
no newline characters (e.g. \n ), the m option has no
effect. x "Extended" capability to ignore all white space characters
in the pattern unless escaped or included in a character
class. Additionally, it ignores characters in-between and including
an un-escaped hash/pound ( # ) character and the next new
line, so that you may include comments in complicated
patterns. This only applies to data characters; white space
characters may never appear within special character
sequences in a pattern. The x option does not affect the handling of the VT
character (i.e. code 11). You can specify the option only in the options field. s Allows the dot character (i.e. . ) to match all
characters including newline characters. You can specify the option only in the options field. Returns The operator returns a boolean: true if a match exists. false if a match doesn't exist. Tip See also: $regexFind $regexFindAll Behavior PCRE Library Starting in version 6.1, MongoDB uses the PCRE2 (Perl Compatible Regular Expressions) library to
implement regular expression pattern matching. To learn more about
PCRE2, see the PCRE Documentation . $regexMatch and Collation $regexMatch ignores the collation specified for the
collection, db.collection.aggregate() , and the index, if used. For example, the create a sample collection with collation strength 1 (i.e. compare base character only and ignore other differences
such as case and diacritics): db. createCollection ( "myColl" , { collation : { locale : "fr" , strength : 1 } } ) Insert the following documents: db. myColl . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , category : "café" } , { _id : 2 , category : "cafe" } , { _id : 3 , category : "cafE" } ]) Using the collection's collation, the following operation performs a
case-insensitive and diacritic-insensitive match: db. myColl . aggregate ( [ { $match : { category : "cafe" } } ] ) The operation returns the following 3 documents: { "_id" : 1 , "category" : "café" } { "_id" : 2 , "category" : "cafe" } { "_id" : 3 , "category" : "cafE" } However, the aggregation expression $regexMatch ignores
collation; that is, the following regular expression pattern matching examples
are case-sensitive and diacritic sensitive: db. myColl . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { results : { $regexMatch : { input : "$category" , regex : /cafe/ }  } } } ] ) db. myColl . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { results : { $regexMatch : { input : "$category" , regex : /cafe/ }  } } } ] , { collation : { locale : "fr" , strength : 1 } } // Ignored in the $regexMatch ) Both operations return the following: { "_id" : 1 , "category" : "café" , "results" : false } { "_id" : 2 , "category" : "cafe" , "results" : true } { "_id" : 3 , "category" : "cafE" , "results" : false } To perform a case-insensitive regex pattern matching, use the i Option instead. See i Option for an example. Examples $regexMatch and Its Options To illustrate the behavior of the $regexMatch operator as
discussed in this example, create a sample collection products with
the following documents: db. products . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , description : "Single LINE description." } , { _id : 2 , description : "First lines \n second line" } , { _id : 3 , description : "Many spaces before     line" } , { _id : 4 , description : "Multiple \n line descriptions" } , { _id : 5 , description : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" } , { _id : 6 , description : "métier work vocation" } ]) By default, $regexMatch performs a case-sensitive match.
For example, the following aggregation performs a case- sensitive $regexMatch on the description field. The regex
pattern /line/ does not specify any grouping: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { result : { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/ } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "result" : false } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "result" : false } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "result" : false } The following regex pattern /lin(e|k)/ specifies a grouping (e|k) in the pattern: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { result : { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /lin(e|k)/ } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "result" : false } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "result" : false } i Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To perform case- insensitive pattern matching, include the i option as part of the regex field or in the options field: // Specify i as part of the regex field { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/i } } // Specify i in the options field { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/ , options : "i" } } { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : "line" , options : "i" } } For example, the following aggregation performs a case- insensitive $regexMatch on the description field. The regex
pattern /line/ does not specify any grouping: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { result : { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/i } } } } ]) The operation returns the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "result" : true } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "result" : false } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "result" : false } m Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To match the specified anchors (e.g. ^ , $ ) for each line of a
multiline string, include the m option
as part of the regex field or in the options field: // Specify m as part of the regex field { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/m } } // Specify m in the options field { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/ , options : "m" } } { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : "line" , options : "m" } } The following example includes both the i and the m options to
match lines starting with either the letter s or S for
multiline strings: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { result : { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /^s/im } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "result" : true } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "result" : true } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "result" : false } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "result" : false } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "result" : false } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "result" : false } x Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To ignore all unescaped white space characters and comments (denoted by
the un-escaped hash # character and the next new-line character) in
the pattern, include the s option in the options field: // Specify x in the options field { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/ , options : "x" } } { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : "line" , options : "x" } } The following example includes the x option to skip unescaped white
spaces and comments: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returns : { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /lin(e|k) # matches line or link/ , options : "x" } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returns" : false } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returns" : true } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returns" : true } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returns" : true } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returns" : true } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returns" : false } s Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To allow the dot character (i.e. . ) in the pattern to match all
characters including the new line character, include the s option in the options field: // Specify s in the options field { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /m.*line/ , options : "s" } } { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : "m.*line" , options : "s" } } The following example includes the s option to allow the dot
character (i.e. .) to match all characters including new line as well
as the i option to perform a case-insensitive match: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returns : { $regexMatch : { input : "$description" , regex : /m.*line/ , options : "si" } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returns" : false } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returns" : false } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returns" : true } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returns" : true } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returns" : false } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returns" : false } Use $regexMatch to Check Email Address Create a sample collection feedback with the following documents: db. feedback . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , comment : "Hi, I'm just reading about MongoDB -- aunt.arc.tica@example.com" } , { "_id" : 2 , comment : "I wanted to concatenate a string" } , { "_id" : 3 , comment : "How do I convert a date to string? Contact me at either cam@mongodb.com or c.dia@mongodb.com" } , { "_id" : 4 , comment : "It's just me. I'm testing.  fred@MongoDB.com" } ]) The following aggregation uses the $regexMatch to check
if the comment field contains an email address with @mongodb.com and categorize the feedback as Employee or External . db. feedback . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { "category" : { $cond : { if : { $regexMatch : { input : "$comment" , regex : / [a-z0-9_.+-] +@mongodb.com/i } } , then : "Employee" , else : "External" } } } } , The operation returns the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "comment" : "Hi, I'm just reading about MongoDB -- aunt.arc.tica@example.com" , "category" : "External" } { "_id" : 2 , "comment" : "I wanted to concatenate a string" , "category" : "External" } { "_id" : 3 , "comment" : "How do I convert a date to string? Contact me at either cam@mongodb.com or c.dia@mongodb.com" , "category" : "Employee" } { "_id" : 4 , "comment" : "It's just me. I'm testing.  fred@MongoDB.com" , "category" : "Employee" } Back $regexFindAll Next $replaceOne
