# $binarySize (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $binarySize (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $binarySize Returns the size of a given string or binary data value's content in
bytes. $binarySize has the following syntax: { $binarySize : < string or binData > } The argument can be any valid expression as long as it resolves to
either a string or binary data value. For more information on
expressions, see Expression Operators . Behavior The argument for $binarySize must resolve to either: A string, A binary data value, or null. If the argument is a string or binary data value, the expression
returns the size of the argument in bytes. If the argument is null , the expression returns null . If the argument resolves to any other data type, $binarySize errors. String Size Calculation If the argument for $binarySize is a string, the operator
counts the number of UTF-8 encoded bytes in a string where each character
may use between one and four bytes. For example, US-ASCII characters are encoded using one byte. Characters
with diacritic markings and additional Latin alphabetical characters
(Latin characters outside of the English alphabet) are encoded
using two bytes. Chinese, Japanese and Korean characters typically
require three bytes, and other planes of unicode (emoji, mathematical
symbols, etc.) require four bytes. Consider the following examples: Example Results Notes { $binarySize : "abcde" } 5 Each character is encoded using one byte. { $binarySize : "Hello World!" } 12 Each character is encoded using one byte. { $binarySize : "cafeteria" } 9 Each character is encoded using one byte. { $binarySize : "cafétéria" } 11 é is encoded using two bytes. { $binarySize : "" } 0 Empty strings return 0. { $binarySize : "$€λG" } 7 € is encoded using three bytes. λ is encoded using two bytes. { $binarySize : "寿司" } 6 Each character is encoded using three bytes. Example In mongosh , create a sample collection named images with the following documents: db. images . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , name : "cat.jpg" , binary : new BinData ( 0 , "OEJTfmD8twzaj/LPKLIVkA==" )} , { _id : 2 , name : "big_ben.jpg" , binary : new BinData ( 0 , "aGVsZmRqYWZqYmxhaGJsYXJnYWZkYXJlcTU1NDE1Z2FmZCBmZGFmZGE=" )} , { _id : 3 , name : "tea_set.jpg" , binary : new BinData ( 0 , "MyIRAFVEd2aImaq7zN3u/w==" )} , { _id : 4 , name : "concert.jpg" , binary : new BinData ( 0 , "TWFuIGlzIGRpc3Rpbmd1aXNoZWQsIG5vdCBvbmx5IGJ5IGhpcyByZWFzb24sIGJ1dCBieSB0aGlzIHNpbmd1bGFyIHBhc3Npb24gZnJvbSBvdGhlciBhbmltYWxzLCB3aGljaCBpcyBhIGx1c3Qgb2YgdGhlIG1pbmQsIHRoYXQgYnkgYSBwZXJzZXZlcmFuY2Ugb2YgZGVsaWdodCBpbiB0aGUgY29udGludWVkIGFuZCBpbmRlZmF0aWdhYmxlIGdlbmVyYXRpb24gb2Yga25vd2xlZGdlLCBleGNlZWRzIHRoZSBzaG9ydCB2ZWhlbWVuY2Ugb2YgYW55IGNhcm5hbCBwbGVhc3VyZS4=" )} , { _id : 5 , name : "empty.jpg" , binary : new BinData ( 0 , "" ) } ]) The following aggregation projects : The name field The imageSize field, which uses $binarySize to
return the size of the document's binary field in bytes. db. images . aggregate ( [ { $project : { "name" : "$name" , "imageSize" : { $binarySize : "$binary" } } } ]) The operation returns the following result: { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "cat.jpg" , "imageSize" : 16 } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "big_ben.jpg" , "imageSize" : 41 } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "teaset.jpg" , "imageSize" : 16 } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "concert.jpg" , "imageSize" : 269 } { "_id" : 5 , "name" : "empty.jpg" , "imageSize" : 0 } Find Largest Binary Data The following pipeline returns the image with the largest
binary data size: db. images . aggregate ( [ // First Stage { $project : { name : "$name" , imageSize : { $binarySize : "$binary" } }  } , // Second Stage { $sort : { "imageSize" : - 1 } } , // Third Stage { $limit : 1 } ]) First Stage The first stage of the pipeline projects : The name field The imageSize field, which uses $binarySize to
return the size of the document's binary field in bytes. This stage outputs the following documents to the next stage: { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "cat.jpg" , "imageSize" : 16 } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "big_ben.jpg" , "imageSize" : 41 } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "teaset.jpg" , "imageSize" : 16 } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "concert.jpg" , "imageSize" : 269 } { "_id" : 5 , "name" : "empty.jpg" , "imageSize" : 0 } Second Stage The second stage sorts the documents by imageSize in descending order. This stage outputs the following documents to the next stage: { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "concert.jpg" , "imageSize" : 269 } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "big_ben.jpg" , "imageSize" : 41 } { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "cat.jpg" , "imageSize" : 16 } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "teaset.jpg" , "imageSize" : 16 } { "_id" : 5 , "name" : "empty.jpg" , "imageSize" : 0 } Third Stage The third stage limits the output documents to
only return the document appearing first in the sort order: { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "concert.jpg" , "imageSize" : 269 } Tip See also: $project $sort $limit $strLenBytes $bsonSize Back $avg Next $bitAnd
