# $lastN - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $lastN On this page Definition Aggregation Accumulator Syntax Behavior Restrictions Examples Array Operator Syntax Behavior Example Definition New in version 5.2 . $lastN can be used as an aggregation accumulator or array operator. As
an aggregation accumulator, it an aggregation of the last n elements within
a group. As an array operator, it returns the specified number of elements
from the end of an array. Aggregation Accumulator $lastN When $lasttN is used as an aggregation accumulator, the elements returned
are meaningful only if they are in a specified sort order.  If the group contains
fewer than n elements, $lastN returns all elements in the group. Syntax { $lastN: { input: <expression>, n: <expression> } } input specifies the field(s) from the document to take the last n of. Input can be any expression. n has to be a positive integral expression that is either a
constant or depends on the _id value for $group .
For details see group key example . Behavior Null and Missing Values $lastN does not filter out null values. $lastN converts missing values to null. Consider the following aggregation that returns the last five documents
from a group: db. aggregate ( [ { $documents : [ { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G1" , score : 1 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G1" , score : 2 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G1" , score : 3 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G1" } , { playerId : "PlayerE" , gameId : "G1" , score : null } ] } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , lastFiveScores : { $lastN : { input : "$score" , n : 5 } } } } ] ) In this example: $documents creates the literal documents that contain
player scores. $group groups the documents by gameId . This
example has only one gameId , G1 . PlayerD has a missing score and PlayerE has a
null score . These values are both considered as null. The lastFiveScores field is specified using input : "$score" and returned as an array. Since there is no sort criteria the last 5 score fields are returned. [ { _id : "G1" , lastFiveScores : [ 1 , 2 , 3 , null , null ] } ] Comparison of $lastN and $bottomN Both $lastN and $bottomN accumulators can accomplish similar
results. In general: If the documents coming into $group are already ordered,
you should use $lastN . If you're sorting and selecting the bottom n elements then you can
use $bottomN to accomplish both tasks with one accumulator. $lastN can be used as an aggregation expression, $bottomN cannot. Restrictions Window Function and Aggregation Expression Support $lastN is supported as an aggregation expression . $lastN is supported as a window operator . Examples Consider a gamescores collection with the following documents: db. gamescores . insertMany ( [ { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G1" , score : 31 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G1" , score : 33 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G1" , score : 99 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G1" , score : 1 } , { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G2" , score : 10 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G2" , score : 14 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G2" , score : 66 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G2" , score : 80 } ]) Find the Last Three Player Scores for a Single Game You can use the $lastN accumulator to find the last three scores
in a single game. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $match : { gameId : "G1" } } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , lastThreeScores : { $lastN : { input : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $match to filter the results on a single gameId .
In this case, G1 . Uses $group to group the results by gameId . In this
case, G1 . Specifies the fields that are output from $lastN with output : ["$playerId"," $score"] . Uses $lastN to return the last three documents
for the G1 game with n : 3 . The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : "G1" , lastThreeScores : [ [ "PlayerB" , 33 ] , [ "PlayerC" , 99 ] , [ "PlayerD" , 1 ] ] } ] Finding the Last Three Player Scores Across Multiple Games You can use the $lastN accumulator to find the last n input fields in each game. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $lastN : { input : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $group to group the results by gameId . Uses $lastN to return the last three documents
for each game with n: 3 . Specifies the fields that are input for $lastN with input : ["$playerId", "$score"] . The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : 'G2' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerB' , 14 ] , [ 'PlayerC' , 66 ] , [ 'PlayerD' , 80 ] ] } , { _id : 'G1' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerB' , 33 ] , [ 'PlayerC' , 99 ] , [ 'PlayerD' , 1 ] ] } ] Using $sort With $lastN Using a $sort stage earlier in the pipeline can influence the
results of the $lastN accumulator. In this example: {$sort : { score : -1 } } sorts the highest scores to the back of
each group. lastN returns the three lowest scores from the back of each group. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $sort : { score : - 1 } } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $lastN : { input : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : 'G2' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerC' , 66 ] , [ 'PlayerB' , 14 ] , [ 'PlayerA' , 10 ] ] } , { _id : 'G1' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerB' , 33 ] , [ 'PlayerA' , 31 ] , [ 'PlayerD' , 1 ] ] } ] Computing n Based on the Group Key for $group You can also assign the value of n dynamically. In this example,
the $cond expression is used on the gameId field. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : { "gameId" : "$gameId" } , gamescores : { $lastN : { input : "$score" , n : { $cond : { if : { $eq : [ "$gameId" , "G2" ] } , then : 1 , else : 3 } } } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $group to group the results by gameId . Specifies the fields that input for $lastN with input : "$score" . If the gameId is G2 then n is 1, otherwise n is 3. The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : { gameId : "G1" } , gamescores : [ 33 , 99 , 1 ] } , { _id : { gameId : "G2" } , gamescores : [ 80 ] } ] Using $lastN as an Aggregation Expression You can also use $lastN as an aggregation expression. In this example: $documents creates the literal document that contains
an array of values. $project is used to return the output of $lastN . _id is omited from the output with _id : 0 . $lastN uses the input array of [10, 20, 30, 40] . The last three elements of the array are returned for the input
document. db. aggregate ( [ { $documents : [ { array : [ 10 , 20 , 30 , 40 ] } ] } , { $project : { lastThreeElements : { $lastN : { input : "$array" , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: [ { lastThreeElements : [ 20 , 30 , 40 ] } ] Array Operator $lastN Syntax $lastN has the following syntax: { $lastN : { n : < expression > , input : < expression > } } Field Description n An expression that resolves to a
positive integer. The integer specifies the number of array elements
that $lastN returns. input An expression that resolves to the
array from which to return n elements. Behavior $lastN returns elements in the same order they appear in
the input array. $lastN does not filter out null values in the input
array. You cannot specify a value of n less than 1 . If the specified n is greater than or equal to the number of elements
in the input array, $lastN returns the input array. If input resolves to a non-array value, the aggregation operation
errors. Example The collection games has the following documents: db. games . insertMany ( [ { "playerId" : 1 , "score" : [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] } , { "playerId" : 2 , "score" : [ 12 , 90 , 7 , 89 , 8 ] } , { "playerId" : 3 , "score" : [ null ] } , { "playerId" : 4 , "score" : [ ] } , { "playerId" : 5 , "score" : [ 1293 , null , 3489 , 9 ]} , { "playerId" : 6 , "score" : [ "12.1" , 2 , NumberLong ( "2090845886852" ) , 23 ]} ]) The following example uses the $lastN operator to retrieve the
last three scores for each player. The scores are returned in the new field lastScores created by $addFields . db. games . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { lastScores : { $lastN : { n : 3 , input : "$score" } } } } ]) The operation returns the following results: [ { "playerId" : 1 , "score" : [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] , "lastScores" : [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] } , { "playerId" : 2 , "score" : [ 12 , 90 , 7 , 89 , 8 ] , "lastScores" : [ 7 , 89 , 8 ] } , { "playerId" : 3 , "score" : [ null ] , "lastScores" : [ null ] } , { "playerId" : 4 , "score" : [ ] , "lastScores" : [ ] } , { "playerId" : 5 , "score" : [ 1293 , null , 3489 , 9 ] , "lastScores" : [ null , 3489 , 9 ] } , { "playerId" : 6 , "score" : [ "12.1" , 2 , NumberLong ( "2090845886852" ) , 23 ] , "lastScores" : [ 2 , NumberLong ( "2090845886852" ) , 23 ] }] Tip See also: $firstN $sortArray Back $last Next $let
