# $convert (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $convert (aggregation) On this page Definition Compatibility Syntax Behavior Example Definition $convert Converts a value to a specified type. Compatibility You can use $convert for deployments hosted in the following
environments: MongoDB Atlas : The fully
managed service for MongoDB deployments in the cloud MongoDB Enterprise : The
subscription-based, self-managed version of MongoDB MongoDB Community : The
source-available, free-to-use, and self-managed version of MongoDB Syntax Changed in version 8.0 . { $convert : { input : < expression > , to : <type expression> || { type: <type expression>, subtype: <int> }, format: <string>, onError: <expression>, onNull: <expression> } } The $convert takes a document with the following fields: Field Necessity Description input Required The argument can be any valid expression . For more information on
expressions, see Expression Operators . to Required Specifies the type to convert the input expression to. You
can set to to one of these values: A string or numeric identifier for the target type. See to.type . An object containing the fields to.type and to.subtype .
Use this format to convert to binData and specify a binData
subtype. to.type Required if specifying to as an object The argument can be any valid expression that resolves to one of the following
numeric or string identifiers: String Identifier Numeric Identifier Notes "double" 1 For more information on the conversion to double, see Convert to Double . "string" 2 For more information on the conversion to string, see Convert to String . "binData" 5 For more information on the conversion to binData, see Convert to BinData . "objectId" 7 For more information on the conversion to objectId, see Convert to ObjectId . "bool" 8 For more information on the conversion to boolean, see Convert to Boolean . "date" 9 For more information on the conversion to date, see Convert to Date . "int" 16 For more information on the conversion to integer, see Convert to Integer . "long" 18 For more information on the conversion to long, see Convert to Long . "decimal" 19 For more information on the conversion to decimal, see Convert to Decimal . to.subtype Optional If to.type is binData , to.subtype specifies the
binData subtype to convert to. You can specify one of these
values for to.subtype : Number Description 0 Generic binary subtype 1 Function data 2 Binary (old) 3 UUID (old) 4 UUID 5 MD5 6 Encrypted BSON value 7 Compressed time series data New in version 5.2 . 8 Sensitive data, such as a key or secret. MongoDB does not log
literal values for binary data with subtype 8. Instead, MongoDB
logs a placeholder value of ### . 9 Vector data, which is densely packed arrays of numbers of the
same type. 128 Custom data Default: 0 (Generic binary subtype) format Required when converting to or from binData. Specifies the binData format of the input or output. Can be one
of these values: base64 base64url utf8 hex uuid If format is uuid , to.subtype must be 4 . onError Optional Value to return on encountering an error during conversion,
including unsupported type conversions. The arguments can be any
valid expression . If unspecified, the operation throws an error upon
encountering an error and stops. onNull Optional Value to return if the input is null or missing. The
arguments can be any valid expression . If unspecified, $convert returns null if the input is null or missing. In addition to $convert , MongoDB provides the
following aggregation operators as shorthand when the default
"onError" and "onNull" behavior is acceptable: $toBool $toDate $toDecimal $toDouble $toInt $toLong $toObjectId $toString $toUUID Behavior Convert to BinData You can only convert strings to binData. All other input types result in
an error. See the following example conversions to binData: Example Result { input : "hn3uUsMxSE6S0cVkebjmfg==" , to : { type : "binData" , subtype : 0 } , format : "base64" } Binary . createFromBase64 ( 'hn3uUsMxSE6S0cVkebjmfg==' , 0 ) { input : "hn3uUsMxSE6S0cVkebjmfg==" , to : "binData" , format : "base64" } Binary . createFromBase64 ( 'hn3uUsMxSE6S0cVkebjmfg==' , 0 ) { input : "867dee52-c331-484e-92d1-c56479b8e67e" , to : { type : "binData" , subtype : 0 } , format : "base64" , } Failed to parse BinData '867dee52-c331-484e-92d1-c56479b8e67e' in $convert with no onError value : Input is not a valid base64 string. { input : "hn3uUsMxSE6S0cVkebjmfg==" , to : { type : "binData" , subtype : 4 } , format : "base64" } Failed to parse BinData 'hn3uUsMxSE6S0cVkebjmfg==' in $convert with no onError value : Input is not a valid base64 string. { input : "867dee52-c331-484e-92d1-c56479b8e67e" , to : { type : "binData" , subtype : 4 } , format : "uuid" } UUID ( '867dee52-c331-484e-92d1-c56479b8e67e' ) { input : "äöäöä" , to : { type : "binData" , subtype : 4 } , format : "uuid" } Failed to parse BinData 'äöäöä' in $convert with no onError value : Input is not a valid UUID string. { input : "867dee52-c331-484e-92d1-c56479b8e67e" , to : { type : "binData" } , format : "uuid" } Failed to parse BinData '867dee52-c331-484e-92d1-c56479b8e67e' in $convert with no onError value : Only the UUID subtype ( 4 ) is allowed with the 'uuid' format. { input : 123 , to : { type : "binData" , subtype : 0 } } Unsupported conversion from int to binData in $convert with no onError value Convert to Boolean The following table lists the input types that can be converted to a
boolean: Input Type Behavior Array Returns true Binary data Returns true Boolean No-op. Returns the boolean value. Code Returns true Date Returns true Decimal Returns true if not zero Return false if zero Double Returns true if not zero Return false if zero Integer Returns true if not zero Return false if zero JavaScript Returns true Long Returns true if not zero Return false if zero MaxKey Returns true MinKey Returns true Null Returns the value specified for the onNull option. By default, returns null. Object Returns true ObjectId Returns true Regular expression Returns true String Returns true Timestamp Returns true To learn more about data types in MongoDB, see BSON Types . The following table lists some conversion to boolean examples: Example Results { input : true , to : "bool" } true { input : false , to : "bool" } false { input : 1.99999 , to : "bool" } true { input : Decimal128 ( "5" ) , to : "bool" } true { input : Decimal128 ( "0" ) , to : "bool" } false { input : 100 , to : "bool" } true { input : ISODate ( "2018-03-26T04:38:28.044Z" ) , to : "bool" } true { input : "hello" , to : "bool" } true { input : "false" , to : "bool" } true { input : "" , to : "bool" } true { input : null , to : "bool" } null Tip See also: $toBool Convert to Integer The following table lists the input types that can be converted to an
integer: Input Type Behavior Boolean Returns 0 for false . Returns 1 for true . Double Returns truncated value. The truncated double value must fall within the minimum and
maximum value for an integer. You cannot convert a double value whose truncated value is less
than the minimum integer value or is greater than the maximum
integer value. Decimal Returns truncated value. The truncated decimal value must fall within the minimum and
maximum value for an integer. You cannot convert a decimal value whose truncated value is less
than the minimum integer value or is greater than the maximum
integer value. Integer No-op. Returns the integer value. Long Returns the long value as an integer. The long value must fall within the minimum and maximum value
for an integer. You cannot convert a long value that is less than the minimum
integer value or is greater than the maximum integer value. String Returns the numerical value of the string as an integer. The string value must be a base 10 integer (e.g. "-5" , "123456" ) and fall within the minimum and maximum
value for an integer. You cannot convert a string value of a float or decimal or
non-base 10 number (e.g. "-5.0" , "0x6400" ) or a
value that falls outside the minimum and maximum value for an
integer. The following table lists some conversion to integer examples: Example Results { input : true , to : "int" } 1 { input : false , to : "int" } 0 { input : 1.99999 , to : "int" } 1 { input : Decimal128 ( "5.5000" ) , to : "int" } 5 { input : Decimal128 ( "9223372036000.000" ) , to : "int" } Error { input : Long ( "5000" ) , to : "int" } 5000 { input : Long ( "922337203600" ) , to : "int" } Error { input : "-2" , to : "int" } -2 { input : "2.5" , to : "int" } Error { input : null , to : "int" } null Tip See also: $toInt operator. Convert to Decimal The following table lists the input types that can be converted to a
decimal: Input Type Behavior Boolean Returns Decimal128( "0" ) for false . Returns Decimal128( "1" ) for true . Double Returns double value as a decimal. Decimal No-op. Returns the decimal. Integer Returns the int value as a decimal. Long Returns the long value as a decimal. String Returns the numerical value of the string as a decimal. The string value must be of a base 10 numeric value (e.g. "-5.5" , "123456" ). You cannot convert a string value of a non-base 10 number (e.g. "0x6400" ) Date Returns the number of milliseconds since the epoch that
corresponds to the date value. The following table lists some conversion to decimal examples: Example Results { input : true , to : "decimal" } Decimal128("1") { input : false , to : "decimal" } Decimal128("0") { input : 2.5 , to : "decimal" } Decimal128( "2.50000000000000" ) { input : Int32 ( 5 ) , to : "decimal" } Decimal128("5") { input : Long ( 10000 ) , to : "decimal" } Decimal128("10000") { input : "-5.5" , to : "decimal" } Decimal128("-5.5") { input : ISODate ( "2018-03-26T04:38:28.044Z" ) , to : "decimal" } Decimal128("1522039108044") Tip See also: $toDecimal Convert to Double The following table lists the input types that can be converted to a
double: Input Type Behavior Boolean Returns NumberDouble(0) for false . Returns NumberDouble(1) for true . Double No-op. Returns the double. Decimal Returns the decimal value as a double. The decimal value must fall within the minimum and
maximum value for a double. You cannot convert a decimal value whose value is less
than the minimum double value or is greater than the maximum
double value. Integer Returns the int value as a double. Long Returns the long value as a double. String Returns the numerical value of the string as a double. The string value must be of a base 10 numeric value (e.g. "-5.5" , "123456" ) and fall within the minimum and
maximum value for a double. You cannot convert a string value of a non-base 10 number (e.g. "0x6400" ) or a value that falls
outside the minimum and maximum value for a double. Date Returns the number of milliseconds since the epoch that
corresponds to the date value. The following table lists some conversion to double examples: Example Results { input : true , to : "double" } 1 { input : false , to : "double" } 0 { input : 2.5 , to : "double" } 2.5 { input : Int32 ( 5 ) , to : "double" } 5 { input : Long ( "10000" ) , to : "double" } 10000 { input : "-5.5" , to : "double" } -5.5 { input : "5e10" , to : "double" } 50000000000 { input : ISODate ( "2018-03-26T04:38:28.044Z" ) , to : "double" } 1522039108044 Tip See also: $toDouble Convert to Long The following table lists the input types that can be converted to a
long: Input Type Behavior Boolean Returns 0 for false . Returns 1 for true . Double Returns truncated value. The truncated double value must fall within the minimum and
maximum value for a long. You cannot convert a double value whose truncated value is less
than the minimum long value or is greater than the maximum
long value. Decimal Returns truncated value. The truncated decimal value must fall within the minimum and
maximum value for a long. You cannot convert a decimal value whose truncated value is less
than the minimum long value or is greater than the maximum
long value. Integer Returns the int value as a long. Long No-op. Returns the long value. String Returns the numerical value of the string. The string value must be of a base 10 long (e.g. "-5" , "123456" ) and fall within the minimum and maximum
value for a long. You cannot convert a string value of a float or decimal or
non-base 10 number (e.g. "-5.0" , "0x6400" ) or a
value that falls outside the minimum and maximum value
for a long. Date Converts the Date into the number of milliseconds since the
epoch. The following table lists some conversion to long examples: Example Results { input : true , to : "long" } Long("1") { input : false , to : "long" } Long("0") { input : 2.5 , to : "long" } Long("2") { input : Decimal128 ( "5.5000" ) , to : "long" } Long("5") { input : Decimal128 ( "9223372036854775808.0" ) , to : "long" } Error { input : Int32 ( 8 ) , to : "long" } Long("8") { input : ISODate ( "2018-03-26T04:38:28.044Z" ) , to : "long" } Long("1522039108044") { input : "-2" , to : "long" } Long("-2") { input : "2.5" , to : "long" } Error { input : null , to : "long" } null Tip See also: $toLong Convert to Date The following table lists the input types that can be converted to a
date: Input Type Behavior Double Returns a date that corresponds to the number of milliseconds
represented by the truncated double value. Positive number corresponds to the number of milliseconds since
Jan 1, 1970. Negative number corresponds to the number of milliseconds before
Jan 1, 1970. Decimal Returns a date that corresponds to the number of milliseconds
represented by the truncated decimal value. Positive number corresponds to the number of milliseconds since
Jan 1, 1970. Negative number corresponds to the number of milliseconds before
Jan 1, 1970. Long Returns a date that corresponds to the number of milliseconds
represented by the long value. Positive number corresponds to the number of milliseconds since
Jan 1, 1970. Negative number corresponds to the number of milliseconds before
Jan 1, 1970. String Returns a date that corresponds to the date string. The string must be a valid date string, such as: "2018-03-03" "2018-03-03T12:00:00Z" "2018-03-03T12:00:00+0500" ObjectId Returns a date that corresponds to the timestamp of the
ObjectId. Timestamp Returns a date that corresponds to the timestamp. The following table lists some conversion to date examples: Example Results { input : 120000000000.5 , to : "date" } ISODate("1973-10-20T21:20:00.000Z") { input : Decimal128 ( "1253372036000.50" ) , to : "date" } ISODate("2009-09-19T14:53:56.000Z") { input : Long ( "1100000000000" ) , to : "date } ISODate("2004-11-09T11:33:20.000Z") { input : Long ( "-1100000000000" ) , to : "date" } ISODate("1935-02-22T12:26:40.000Z") { input : ObjectId ( "5ab9c3da31c2ab715d421285" ) , to : "date" } ISODate("2018-03-27T04:08:58.000Z") { input : "2018-03-03" , to : "date" } ISODate("2018-03-03T00:00:00.000Z") { input : "2018-03-20 11:00:06 +0500" , to : "date" } ISODate("2018-03-20T06:00:06.000Z") { input : "Friday" , to : "date" } Error { input : Timestamp ( { t : 1637688118 , i : 1 } ) , to : "date" } ISODate("2021-11-23T17:21:58.000Z") Tip See also: $toDate operator $dateFromString Convert to ObjectId The following table lists the input types that can be converted to an
ObjectId: Input Type Behavior String Returns an ObjectId for the hexadecimal string of length 24. You cannot convert a string value that is not a hexadecimal
string of length 24. The following table lists some conversion to date examples: Example Results { input : "5ab9cbfa31c2ab715d42129e" , to : "objectId" } ObjectId("5ab9cbfa31c2ab715d42129e") { input : "5ab9cbfa31c2ab715d42129" , to : "objectId" } Error Tip See also: $toObjectId operator. Convert to String The following table lists the input types that can be converted to a
string: Input Type Behavior BinData Returns the binary data value as a string. Boolean Returns the boolean value as a string. Double Returns the double value as a string. Decimal Returns the decimal value as a string. Integer Returns the integer value as a string. Long Returns the long value as a string. ObjectId Returns the ObjectId value as a hexadecimal string.. String No-op. Returns the string value. Date Returns the date as a string. The following table lists some conversion to string examples: Example Results { input : true , to : "string" } "true" { input : false , to : "string" } "false" { input : 2.5 , to : "string" } "2.5" { input : Int32 ( 2 ) , to : "string" } "2" { input : Long ( 1000 ) , to : "string" } "1000" { input : ObjectId ( "5ab9c3da31c2ab715d421285" ) , to : "string" } "5ab9c3da31c2ab715d421285" { input : ISODate ( "2018-03-27T16:58:51.538Z" ) , to : "string" } "2018-03-27T16:58:51.538Z" { input : BinData ( 4 , "hn3f" ) , to : "string" , format : "base64" } 'hn3f' Tip See also: $toString operator $dateToString Example Create a collection orders with the following documents: db. orders . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , item : "apple" , qty : 5 , price : 10 } , { _id : 2 , item : "pie" , qty : 10 , price : Decimal128 ( "20.0" ) } , { _id : 3 , item : "ice cream" , qty : 2 , price : "4.99" } , { _id : 4 , item : "almonds" } , { _id : 5 , item : "bananas" , qty : 5000000000 , price : Decimal128 ( "1.25" ) } ] ) The following aggregation operation on the orders collection
converts the price to a decimal: // Define stage to add convertedPrice and convertedQty fields with // the converted price and qty values. // If price or qty values are missing, the conversion returns a //    value of decimal value or int value of 0. // If price or qty values cannot be converted, the conversion returns //    a string priceQtyConversionStage = { $addFields : { convertedPrice : { $convert : { input : "$price" , to : "decimal" , onError : "Error" , onNull : Decimal128 ( "0" ) } } , convertedQty : { $convert : { input : "$qty" , to : "int" , onError : { $concat : [ "Could not convert " , { $toString : "$qty" } , " to type integer." ] } , onNull : Int32 ( "0" ) } } , } } ; totalPriceCalculationStage = { $project : { totalPrice : { $switch : { branches : [ { case : { $eq : [ { $type : "$convertedPrice" } , "string" ] } , then : "NaN" } , { case : { $eq : [ { $type : "$convertedQty" } , "string" ] } , then : "NaN" } , ] , default : { $multiply : [ "$convertedPrice" , "$convertedQty" ] } } } } } ; db. orders . aggregate ( [ priceQtyConversionStage , totalPriceCalculationStage ]) The operation returns the following documents: { _id: 1, totalPrice: Decimal128("50") }, { _id: 2, totalPrice: Decimal128("200.0") }, { _id: 3, totalPrice: Decimal128("9.98") }, { _id: 4, totalPrice: Decimal128("0") }, { _id: 5, totalPrice: 'NaN' } Note These examples use mongosh . The default types are
different in the legacy mongo shell. Back $cond Next $cos
