# $project (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Stages $project (aggregation) On this page Definition Compatibility Syntax Behavior Considerations Examples Definition $project Passes along the documents with the requested fields to the
next stage in the pipeline. The specified fields can be existing
fields from the input documents or newly computed fields. Compatibility You can use $project for deployments hosted in the following
environments: MongoDB Atlas : The fully
managed service for MongoDB deployments in the cloud MongoDB Enterprise : The
subscription-based, self-managed version of MongoDB MongoDB Community : The
source-available, free-to-use, and self-managed version of MongoDB Syntax The $project stage has the following prototype form: { $project : { <specification(s)> } } The $project takes a document that can specify the
inclusion of fields, the suppression of the _id field,
the addition of new fields, and the resetting of the values of existing
fields. Alternatively, you may specify the exclusion of fields. The $project specifications have the following forms: Form Description <field>: <1 or true> Specifies the inclusion of a field. Non-zero integers are also treated
as true . _id: <0 or false> Specifies the suppression of the _id field. To exclude a field conditionally, use the REMOVE variable instead. For details, see Exclude Fields Conditionally . <field>: <expression> Adds a new field or resets the value of an existing field. If the expression evaluates to $$REMOVE , the field is
excluded in the output. For details, see Exclude Fields Conditionally . <field>: <0 or false> Specifies the exclusion of a field. To exclude a field conditionally, use the REMOVE variable instead. For details, see Exclude Fields Conditionally . If you specify the exclusion of a field other than _id ,
you cannot employ any other $project specification forms. This restriction does not apply to
conditionally exclusion of a field using the REMOVE variable. See also the $unset stage to exclude fields. Behavior Include Fields The _id field is, by default, included in the output documents.
To include any other fields from the input documents in the output
documents, you must explicitly specify the inclusion in $project . If you specify an inclusion of a field that does not exist in the
document, $project ignores that field inclusion and
does not add the field to the document. _id Field By default, the _id field is included in the output documents.
To exclude the _id field from the output documents, you
must explicitly specify the suppression of the _id field in $project . Exclude Fields If you specify the exclusion of a field or fields, all other fields are
returned in the output documents. { $project : { "<field1>" : 0 , "<field2>" : 0 , ... } } // Return all but the specified fields If you specify the exclusion of a field other than _id , you cannot
employ any other $project specification forms: i.e. if you
exclude fields, you cannot also specify the inclusion of fields, reset
the value of existing fields, or add new fields. This restriction does
not apply to conditional exclusion of a field using the REMOVE variable. See also the $unset stage to exclude fields. Exclude Fields Conditionally You can use the variable REMOVE in aggregation expressions
to conditionally suppress a field. For an example, see Conditionally Exclude Fields . Add New Fields or Reset Existing Fields Note MongoDB also provides $addFields to add new fields to
the documents. To add a new field or to reset the value of an existing field, specify
the field name and set its value to some expression. For more
information on expressions, see Expression Operators . Literal Values To set a field value directly to a numeric or boolean literal, as
opposed to setting the field to an expression that resolves to a
literal, use the $literal operator. Otherwise, $project treats the numeric or boolean literal as a flag
for including or excluding the field. Field Rename By specifying a new field and setting its value to the field path of an
existing field, you can effectively rename a field. New Array Fields The $project stage supports using the square brackets [] to directly create new array fields. If you specify array fields that do
not exist in a document, the operation substitutes null as the value
for that field. For an example, see Project New Array Fields . You cannot use an array index with the $project stage.
For more information, see Array Indexes are Unsupported . Embedded Document Fields When projecting or adding/resetting a field within an embedded
document, you can either use dot notation , as in "contact.address.country" : <1 or 0 or expression> Or you can nest the fields: contact : { address : { country : <1 or 0 or expression> } } When nesting the fields, you cannot use dot notation inside the
embedded document to specify the field, e.g. contact: {
"address.country": <1 or 0 or expression> } is invalid . Path Collision Errors in Embedded Fields You cannot specify both an embedded document and a field within that
embedded document in the same projection. The following $project stage fails with a Path collision error because it attempts to project both the embedded contact document and the contact.address.country field: { $project : { contact : 1 , "contact.address.country" : 1 } } The error occurs regardless of the order in which the parent document
and embedded field are specified. The following $project fails with the same error: { $project : { "contact.address.country" : 1 , contact : 1 } } $project Stage Placement When you use a $project stage it should typically be the last stage in
your pipeline, used to specify which fields to return to the client. Using a $project stage at the beginning or middle of a pipeline to
reduce the number of fields passed to subsequent pipeline stages is
unlikely to improve performance, as the database performs this
optimization automatically. Considerations Empty Specification MongoDB returns an error if the $project stage is passed an
empty document. For example, running the following pipeline produces an error: db. myCollection . aggregate ( [ { $project : { } } ] ) Array Index You cannot use an array index with the $project stage.
For more information, see Array Indexes are Unsupported . Examples Include Specific Fields in Output Documents Consider a books collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , title : "abc123" , isbn : "0001122223334" , author : { last : "zzz" , first : "aaa" } , copies : 5 } The following $project stage includes only the _id , title , and the author fields in its output documents: db. books . aggregate ( [ { $project : { title : 1 , author : 1 } } ] ) The operation results in the following document: { "_id" : 1 , "title" : "abc123" , "author" : { "last" : "zzz" , "first" : "aaa" } } Suppress _id Field in the Output Documents The _id field is always included by default. To exclude the _id field from the output documents of the $project stage,
specify the exclusion of the _id field by setting it to 0 in
the projection document. Consider a books collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , title : "abc123" , isbn : "0001122223334" , author : { last : "zzz" , first : "aaa" } , copies : 5 } The following $project stage excludes the _id field but
includes the title , and the author fields in its output
documents: db. books . aggregate ( [ { $project : { _id : 0 , title : 1 , author : 1 } } ] ) The operation results in the following document: { "title" : "abc123" , "author" : { "last" : "zzz" , "first" : "aaa" } } Exclude Fields from Output Documents Consider a books collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , title : "abc123" , isbn : "0001122223334" , author : { last : "zzz" , first : "aaa" } , copies : 5 , lastModified : "2016-07-28" } The following $project stage excludes the lastModified field from the output: db. books . aggregate ( [ { $project : { "lastModified" : 0 } } ] ) See also the $unset stage to exclude fields. Exclude Fields from Embedded Documents Consider a books collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , title : "abc123" , isbn : "0001122223334" , author : { last : "zzz" , first : "aaa" } , copies : 5 , lastModified : "2016-07-28" } The following $project stage excludes the author.first and lastModified fields from the output: db. books . aggregate ( [ { $project : { "author.first" : 0 , "lastModified" : 0 } } ] ) Alternatively, you can nest the exclusion specification in a document: db. bookmarks . aggregate ( [ { $project : { "author" : { "first" : 0 } , "lastModified" : 0 } } ] ) Both specifications result in the same output: { "_id" : 1 , "title" : "abc123" , "isbn" : "0001122223334" , "author" : { "last" : "zzz" } , "copies" : 5 , } See also the $unset stage to exclude fields. Conditionally Exclude Fields You can use the variable REMOVE in aggregation expressions
to conditionally suppress a field. Consider a books collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , title : "abc123" , isbn : "0001122223334" , author : { last : "zzz" , first : "aaa" } , copies : 5 , lastModified : "2016-07-28" } { "_id" : 2 , title : "Baked Goods" , isbn : "9999999999999" , author : { last : "xyz" , first : "abc" , middle : "" } , copies : 2 , lastModified : "2017-07-21" } { "_id" : 3 , title : "Ice Cream Cakes" , isbn : "8888888888888" , author : { last : "xyz" , first : "abc" , middle : "mmm" } , copies : 5 , lastModified : "2017-07-22" } The following $project stage uses the REMOVE variable to excludes the author.middle field only if it equals "" : db. books . aggregate ( [ { $project : { title : 1 , "author.first" : 1 , "author.last" : 1 , "author.middle" : { $cond : { if : { $eq : [ "" , "$author.middle" ] } , then : "$$REMOVE" , else : "$author.middle" } } } } ] ) The aggregation operation results in the following output: { "_id" : 1 , "title" : "abc123" , "author" : { "last" : "zzz" , "first" : "aaa" } } { "_id" : 2 , "title" : "Baked Goods" , "author" : { "last" : "xyz" , "first" : "abc" } } { "_id" : 3 , "title" : "Ice Cream Cakes" , "author" : { "last" : "xyz" , "first" : "abc" , "middle" : "mmm" } } Tip Comparison with $addFields You can use either the $addFields or $project stage to remove
document fields. The best approach depends on your pipeline and how much
of the original document you want to retain. To see an example using $$REMOVE in an $addFields stage, see Remove Fields . Include Specific Fields from Embedded Documents Consider a bookmarks collection with the following documents: { _id : 1 , user : "1234" , stop : { title : "book1" , author : "xyz" , page : 32 } } { _id : 2 , user : "7890" , stop : [ { title : "book2" , author : "abc" , page : 5 } , { title : "book3" , author : "ijk" , page : 100 } ] } To include only the title field in the embedded document in the stop field, you can use  the dot notation : db. bookmarks . aggregate ( [ { $project : { "stop.title" : 1 } } ] ) Or, you can nest the inclusion specification in a document: db. bookmarks . aggregate ( [ { $project : { stop : { title : 1 } } } ] ) Both specifications result in the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "stop" : { "title" : "book1" } } { "_id" : 2 , "stop" : [ { "title" : "book2" } , { "title" : "book3" } ] } Include Computed Fields Consider a books collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , title : "abc123" , isbn : "0001122223334" , author : { last : "zzz" , first : "aaa" } , copies : 5 } The following $project stage adds the new fields isbn , lastName , and copiesSold : db. books . aggregate ( [ { $project : { title : 1 , isbn : { prefix : { $substr : [ "$isbn" , 0 , 3 ] } , group : { $substr : [ "$isbn" , 3 , 2 ] } , publisher : { $substr : [ "$isbn" , 5 , 4 ] } , title : { $substr : [ "$isbn" , 9 , 3 ] } , checkDigit : { $substr : [ "$isbn" , 12 , 1 ] } } , lastName : "$author.last" , copiesSold : "$copies" } } ] ) The operation results in the following document: { "_id" : 1 , "title" : "abc123" , "isbn" : { "prefix" : "000" , "group" : "11" , "publisher" : "2222" , "title" : "333" , "checkDigit" : "4" } , "lastName" : "zzz" , "copiesSold" : 5 } Project New Array Fields For example, if a collection includes the following document: { "_id" : ObjectId ( "55ad167f320c6be244eb3b95" ) , "x" : 1 , "y" : 1 } The following operation projects the fields x and y as elements
in a new field myArray : db. collection . aggregate ( [ { $project : { myArray : [ "$x" , "$y" ] } } ] ) The operation returns the following document: { "_id" : ObjectId ( "55ad167f320c6be244eb3b95" ) , "myArray" : [ 1 , 1 ] } If array specification includes fields that are non-existent in a
document, the operation substitutes null as the value for that
field. For example, given the same document as above, the following operation
projects the fields x , y , and a non-existing field $someField as elements in a new field myArray : db. collection . aggregate ( [ { $project : { myArray : [ "$x" , "$y" , "$someField" ] } } ] ) The operation returns the following document: { "_id" : ObjectId ( "55ad167f320c6be244eb3b95" ) , "myArray" : [ 1 , 1 , null ] } Array Indexes are Unsupported You cannot use an array index with the $project stage. This
section shows an example. Create the following pizzas collection: db. pizzas . insert ( [ { _id : 0 , name : [ 'Pepperoni' ] } , ] ) The following example returns the pizza: db. pizzas . aggregate ( [ { $project : { x : '$name' , _id : 0 } } , ] ) The pizza is returned in the example output: [ { x : [ 'Pepperoni' ] } ] The following example uses an array index ( $name.0 ) to attempt to
return the pizza: db. pizzas . aggregate ( [ { $project : { x : '$name.0' , _id : 0 } } , ] ) The pizza is not returned in the example output: [ { x : [ ] } ] Tip See also: Aggregation with the Zip Code Data Set Aggregation with User Preference Data Back $planCacheStats Next $querySettings
