# $unionWith (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Stages $unionWith (aggregation) On this page Definition Syntax Considerations Duplicate Results $unionWith a Sharded Collection Collation Atlas Search Support Restrictions Examples Create Sales Reports from the Union of Yearly Data Collections Report 1: All Sales by Year and Stores and Items Report 2: Aggregated Sales by Items Create a Union with Specified Documents Namespaces in Subpipelines Definition $unionWith Changed in version 8.0 . Combines two aggregations into a single result set. $unionWith outputs the combined result set (including duplicates) to the next
stage. The order in which the combined result set documents are output is
unspecified. Syntax The $unionWith stage has the following syntax: { $unionWith : { coll : "<collection>" , pipeline : [ < stage1 > , ... ] } } To include all documents from the specified collection without any
processing, you can use the simplified form: { $unionWith : "<collection>" } // Include all documents from the specified collection The $unionWith stage takes a document with the following fields: Field Necessity Description coll Required if pipeline is omitted. Otherwise optional. The collection or view whose pipeline results you wish to include in the result set. If you omit the coll field, you must specify a pipeline field with a first stage of $documents . pipeline Required if coll is omitted. Otherwise optional. An aggregation pipeline to apply to the input documents. If you specify coll , the pipeline applies to the documents
in coll . If you omit coll , the pipeline applies to the documents in
the pipeline's $documents stage. For an example, see Create a Union with Specified Documents . The pipeline cannot include the $out and $merge stages. Starting in v6.0, the pipeline can contain the Atlas Search $search stage as the first stage inside the pipeline.
To learn more, see Atlas Search Support . The $unionWith operation would correspond to the following
SQL statement: SELECT * FROM Collection1 WHERE ... UNION ALL SELECT * FROM Collection2 WHERE ... Considerations Duplicate Results The combined results from the previous stage and the $unionWith stage can include duplicates. For example, create a suppliers collection and a warehouses collection: db. suppliers . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , supplier : "Aardvark and Sons" , state : "Texas" } , { _id : 2 , supplier : "Bears Run Amok." , state : "Colorado" } , { _id : 3 , supplier : "Squid Mark Inc. " , state : "Rhode Island" } , ]) db. warehouses . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , warehouse : "A" , region : "West" , state : "California" } , { _id : 2 , warehouse : "B" , region : "Central" , state : "Colorado" } , { _id : 3 , warehouse : "C" , region : "East" , state : "Florida" } , ]) The following aggregation combines the state field projection results from
the suppliers and warehouse collections. db. suppliers . aggregate ( [ { $project : { state : 1 , _id : 0 } } , { $unionWith : { coll : "warehouses" , pipeline : [ { $project : { state : 1 , _id : 0 } } ]} } ]) The result set contains duplicates: { "state" : "Texas" } { "state" : "Colorado" } { "state" : "Rhode Island" } { "state" : "California" } { "state" : "Colorado" } { "state" : "Florida" } To remove the duplicates, you can include a $group stage to
group by the state field: db. suppliers . aggregate ( [ { $project : { state : 1 , _id : 0 } } , { $unionWith : { coll : "warehouses" , pipeline : [ { $project : { state : 1 , _id : 0 } } ]} } , { $group : { _id : "$state" } } ]) The result set no longer contains duplicates: { "_id" : "California" } { "_id" : "Texas" } { "_id" : "Florida" } { "_id" : "Colorado" } { "_id" : "Rhode Island" } $unionWith a Sharded Collection If the $unionWith stage is part of the $lookup
pipeline , the $unionWith coll cannot be sharded. For example, in the following
aggregation operation, the inventory_q1 collection cannot be
sharded: db. suppliers . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "warehouses" , let : { order_item : "$item" , order_qty : "$ordered" } , pipeline : [ ... { $unionWith : { coll : "inventory_q1" , pipeline : [ ... ] } } , ... ] , as : "stockdata" } } ]) Collation If the db.collection.aggregate() includes a collation document, that collation is used for the operation, ignoring any other
collations. If the db.collection.aggregate() does not include a collation document, the db.collection.aggregate() method
uses the collation for the top-level collection/view on which the db.collection.aggregate() is run: If the $unionWith coll is a collection, its
collation is ignored. If the $unionWith coll is a view , then its collation must match that of the top-level
collection/view.  Otherwise, the operation errors. Atlas Search Support Starting in MongoDB 6.0, you can specify the Atlas Search $search or $searchMeta stage
in the $unionWith pipeline to search collections on the Atlas
cluster. The $search or the $searchMeta stage
must be the first stage inside the $unionWith pipeline. $search $searchMeta [{ "$unionWith": { "coll": <collection-name>, "pipeline": [{ "$search": { "<operator>": { <operator-specification> } }, ... }] } }] [{ "$unionWith": { "coll": <collection-name>, "pipeline": [{ "$searchMeta": { "<collector>": { <collector-specification> } }, ... }] } }] To see an example of $unionWith with $search ,
see the Atlas Search tutorial Run an Atlas Search $search Query
Using $unionWith . Restrictions Restrictions Description transactions An aggregation pipeline cannot use $unionWith inside transactions . Sharded Collection If the $unionWith stage is part of the $lookup
pipeline , the $unionWith coll cannot be sharded. $out The $unionWith pipeline cannot
include the $out stage. $merge The $unionWith pipeline cannot
include the $merge stage. Examples Create Sales Reports from the Union of Yearly Data Collections The following examples use the $unionWith stage to combine data and
return results from multiple collections. In these examples, each collection
contains a year of sales data. Populate Sample Data Create a sales_2017 collection with the following documents: db. sales_2017 . insertMany ( [ { store : "General Store" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 150 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 50 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 100 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 120 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 10 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 5 } ] ) Create a sales_2018 collection with the following documents: db. sales_2018 . insertMany ( [ { store : "General Store" , item : "Cheese" , quantity : 30 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Cheese" , quantity : 50 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 125 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 150 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 200 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 100 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Nuts" , quantity : 100 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 30 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 25 } ] ) Create a sales_2019 collection with the following documents: db. sales_2019 . insertMany ( [ { store : "General Store" , item : "Cheese" , quantity : 50 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Cheese" , quantity : 20 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 125 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 150 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 200 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 100 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Nuts" , quantity : 80 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Nuts" , quantity : 30 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 50 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 75 } ] ) Create a sales_2020 collection with the following documents: db. sales_2020 . insertMany ( [ { store : "General Store" , item : "Cheese" , quantity : 100 , } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Cheese" , quantity : 100 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 200 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Chocolates" , quantity : 300 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 500 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Cookies" , quantity : 400 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Nuts" , quantity : 100 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Nuts" , quantity : 200 } , { store : "General Store" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 100 } , { store : "ShopMart" , item : "Pie" , quantity : 100 } ] ) Report 1: All Sales by Year and Stores and Items The following aggregation creates a yearly sales report that lists all sales by
quarter and stores. The pipeline uses $unionWith to combine documents
from all four collections: db. sales_2017 . aggregate ( [ { $set : { _id : "2017" } } , { $unionWith : { coll : "sales_2018" , pipeline : [ { $set : { _id : "2018" } } ] } } , { $unionWith : { coll : "sales_2019" , pipeline : [ { $set : { _id : "2019" } } ] } } , { $unionWith : { coll : "sales_2020" , pipeline : [ { $set : { _id : "2020" } } ] } } , { $sort : { _id : 1 , store : 1 , item : 1 } } ] ) Specifically, the aggregation pipeline uses: A $set stage to update the _id field to contain the
year. A sequence of $unionWith stages to combine all documents
from the four collections, each also using the $set stage
on its documents. A $sort stage to sort by the _id (the year),
the store , and item . Pipeline output: { "_id" : "2017" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 150 } { "_id" : "2017" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2017" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 10 } { "_id" : "2017" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 50 } { "_id" : "2017" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 120 } { "_id" : "2017" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 5 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Cheese" , "quantity" : 30 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 125 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 200 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 30 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Cheese" , "quantity" : 50 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 150 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Nuts" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2018" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 25 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Cheese" , "quantity" : 50 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 125 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 200 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Nuts" , "quantity" : 80 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 50 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Cheese" , "quantity" : 20 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 150 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Nuts" , "quantity" : 30 } { "_id" : "2019" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 75 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Cheese" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 200 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 500 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Nuts" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "General Store" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Cheese" , "quantity" : 100 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Chocolates" , "quantity" : 300 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Cookies" , "quantity" : 400 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Nuts" , "quantity" : 200 } { "_id" : "2020" , "store" : "ShopMart" , "item" : "Pie" , "quantity" : 100 } Report 2: Aggregated Sales by Items The following aggregation creates a sales report that lists the sales quantity
per item. The pipeline uses $unionWith to combine documents from all
four years: db. sales_2017 . aggregate ( [ { $unionWith : "sales_2018" } , { $unionWith : "sales_2019" } , { $unionWith : "sales_2020" } , { $group : { _id : "$item" , total : { $sum : "$quantity" } } } , { $sort : { total : - 1 } } ] ) The sequence of $unionWith stages retrieve documents
from the specified collections into the pipeline: The $group stage groups by the item field and uses $sum to calculate the total sales quantity per item . The $sort stage orders the documents by descending total . Pipeline output: { "_id" : "Cookies" , "total" : 1720 } { "_id" : "Chocolates" , "total" : 1250 } { "_id" : "Nuts" , "total" : 510 } { "_id" : "Pie" , "total" : 395 } { "_id" : "Cheese" , "total" : 350 } Create a Union with Specified Documents You can use $unionWith to perform a union with documents that you
specify in the pipeline field. When you specify a $documents stage in the pipeline field, you perform a
union with documents that aren't stored in a separate collection. Create a collection cakeFlavors : db. cakeFlavors . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , flavor : "chocolate" } , { _id : 2 , flavor : "strawberry" } , { _id : 3 , flavor : "cherry" } ] ) The following $unionWith operation performs a union with documents
specified in the pipeline $documents field: db. cakeFlavors . aggregate ( [ { $unionWith : { pipeline : [ { $documents : [ { _id : 4 , flavor : "orange" } , { _id : 5 , flavor : "vanilla" , price : 20 } ] } ] } } ] ) Output: [ { _id : 1 , flavor : 'chocolate' } , { _id : 2 , flavor : 'strawberry' } , { _id : 3 , flavor : 'cherry' } , { _id : 4 , flavor : 'orange' } , { _id : 5 , flavor : 'vanilla' , price : 20 } ] Namespaces in Subpipelines Starting in MongoDB 8.0, namespaces in subpipelines within $lookup and $unionWith are validated to ensure the correct use of from and coll fields: For $lookup , omit the from field if you use a subpipeline with
a stage which doesn't require a specified collection. For example, a $documents stage. Similarly, for $unionWith , omit the coll field. Unchanged behavior: For a $lookup that starts with a stage for a collection, for
example a $match or $collStats subpipeline,
you must include the from field and specify the collection. Similarly, for $unionWith , include the coll field and specify
the collection. The following scenario shows an example. Create a collection cakeFlavors : db. cakeFlavors . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , flavor : "chocolate" } , { _id : 2 , flavor : "strawberry" } , { _id : 3 , flavor : "cherry" } ] ) Starting in MongoDB 8.0, the following example returns an error because
it contains an invalid coll field: db. cakeFlavors . aggregate ( [ { $unionWith : { coll : "cakeFlavors" , pipeline : [ { $documents : [ ] } ] } } ] ) In MongoDB versions before 8.0, the previous example runs. For an example with a valid coll field, see Duplicate Results . Back $sortByCount Next $unset
