# $isNumber (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $isNumber (aggregation) On this page Definition Example Definition $isNumber $isNumber checks if the specified expression resolves to one of the
following numeric BSON types : Integer Decimal Double Long $isNumber returns: true if the expression resolves to a number. false if the expression resolves to any other BSON type , null , or
a missing field. $isNumber has the following operator expression syntax : { $isNumber : < expression > } The argument can be any valid expression . Tip See also: $type (Aggregation) - returns the BSON type of the argument. $type (Query) - filters fields based on BSON type. Example Use $isNumber to Check if a Field is Numeric Issue the following operation against the examples.sensors collection to populate test data: db. getSiblingDB ( "examples" ). sensors . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "reading" : NumberDecimal ( 26.0 ) } , { "_id" : 2 , "reading" : NumberLong ( 25.0 ) } , { "_id" : 3 , "reading" : NumberInt ( 24 ) } , { "_id" : 4 , "reading" : 24.0 } , { "_id" : 5 , "reading" : "24" } , { "_id" : 6 , "reading" : [ NumberDecimal ( 26 ) ]} ]) The following aggregation uses the $addFields aggregation
stage to add the following fields to each document: isNumber -  Indicates whether the value of reading is an
integer, decimal, double, or long. type - Indicates the BSON type of reading . db. sensors . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { "isNumber" : { $isNumber : "$reading" } , "hasType" : { $type : "$reading" } } }]) The aggregation operation returns the following results: { "_id" : 1 , "reading" : NumberDecimal ( "26.0000000000000" ) , "isNum " : true , "type" : "decimal" } { "_id" : 2 , "reading" : NumberLong ( 25 ) , "isNum " : true , "type" : "long" } { "_id" : 3 , "reading" : 24 , "isNum " : true , "type" : "int" } { "_id" : 4 , "reading" : 24 , "isNum " : true , "type" : "double" } { "_id" : 5 , "reading" : "24" , "isNum " : false , "type" : "string" } { "_id" : 6 , "reading" : [ NumberDecimal ( "26.0000000000000" ) ] , "isNum " : false , "type" : "array" } Conditionally Modify Fields using $isNumber The grades collection contains data on student grades. The grade field may either store a string letter grade or a numeric point value. db. getSiblingDB ( "examples" ). grades . insertMany ( [ { "student_id" : 457864153 , "class_id" : "01" , "class_desc" : "Algebra" , "grade" : "A" } , { "student_id" : 457864153 , "class_id" : "02" , "class_desc" : "Chemistry" , "grade" : 3.0 } , { "student_id" : 978451637 , "class_id" : "03" , "class_desc" : "Physics" , "grade" : "C" } , { "student_id" : 978451637 , "class_id" : "04" , "class_desc" : "English" , "grade" : 4.0 } ]) The following aggregation uses the $addFields stage to add a points field containing the numeric grade value for that course. The
stage uses the $cond operator to set the value of points based on the output of $isNumber : If true , grades already contains the numeric point value.
Set points equal to grades . If false , grades contains a string letter value. Use $switch to convert the letter grade to its equivalent
point value and assign to points . The aggregation pipeline then uses the $group stage to
group on the student_id and calculate the student's average GPA. db. getSiblingDB ( "examples" ). grades . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { "points" : { $cond : { if : { $isNumber : "$grade" } , then : "$grade" , else : { $switch : { branches : [ { case : { $eq : [ "$grade" , "A" ]} , then : 4.0 } , { case : { $eq : [ "$grade" , "B" ]} , then : 3.0 } , { case : { $eq : [ "$grade" , "C" ]} , then : 2.0 } , { case : { $eq : [ "$grade" , "D" ]} , then : 1.0 } , { case : { $eq : [ "$grade" , "F" ]} , then : 0.0 } ] } } } } } } , { $group : { _id : "$student_id" , GPA : { $avg : "$points" } } } ]) The aggregation pipeline outputs one document per unique student_id with that student's GPA grade point average: { "_id" : 457864153 , "GPA" : 3.5 } { "_id" : 978451637 , "GPA" : 3 } Back $isArray Next $isoDayOfWeek
