# $week (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $week (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $week Returns the week of the year for a date as a number between 0 and 53. Weeks begin on Sundays, and week 1 begins with the first Sunday
of the year. Days preceding the first Sunday of the year are in
week 0. This behavior is the same as the " %U " operator to the strftime standard library function. The $week expression has the following operator expression syntax : { $week : < dateExpression > } The argument can be: An expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp , or an ObjectID . A document with this format: { date : < dateExpression > , timezone : < tzExpression > } Field Description date The date to which the operator is applied. <dateExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp ,
or an ObjectID . timezone Optional. The timezone of the operation result. <tzExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a string formatted as either
an Olson Timezone Identifier or a UTC Offset .
If no timezone is provided, the result is in UTC. Format Examples Olson Timezone Identifier "America/New_York" "Europe/London" "GMT" UTC Offset +/-[hh]:[mm], e.g. "+04:45" +/-[hh][mm], e.g. "-0530" +/-[hh], e.g. "+03" Behavior Example Result { $week : new Date ( "Jan 1, 2016" ) } 0 { $week : { date : new Date ( "2016-01-04" ) } } 1 { $week : { date : new Date ( "August 14, 2011" ) , timezone : "America/Chicago" } } 33 { $week : ISODate ( "1998-11-01T00:00:00Z" ) } 44 { $week : { date : ISODate ( "1998-11-01T00:00:00Z" ) , timezone : "-0500" } } 43 { $week : "March 28, 1976" } error { $week : Date ( "2016-01-01" ) } error { $week : "2009-04-09" } error Note $week cannot take a string as an argument. Example Consider a sales collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 10 , "quantity" : 2 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-01-01T08:15:39.736Z" ) } The following aggregation uses the $week and other
date operators to break down the date field: db. sales . aggregate ( [ { $project : { year : { $year : "$date" } , month : { $month : "$date" } , day : { $dayOfMonth : "$date" } , hour : { $hour : "$date" } , minutes : { $minute : "$date" } , seconds : { $second : "$date" } , milliseconds : { $millisecond : "$date" } , dayOfYear : { $dayOfYear : "$date" } , dayOfWeek : { $dayOfWeek : "$date" } , week : { $week : "$date" } } } ] ) The operation returns the following result: { "_id" : 1 , "year" : 2014 , "month" : 1 , "day" : 1 , "hour" : 8 , "minutes" : 15 , "seconds" : 39 , "milliseconds" : 736 , "dayOfYear" : 1 , "dayOfWeek" : 4 , "week" : 0 } Back $unsetField Next $year
