# $split (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $split (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $split Divides a string into an array of substrings based on a delimiter. $split removes the delimiter and returns the resulting substrings
as elements of an array. If the delimiter is not found in the string, $split returns the original string as the only element of an array. $split has the following operator expression syntax : { $split : [ <string expression>, <delimiter> ] } Field Type Description string expression string The string to be split. string expression can be any valid expression as
long as it resolves to a string. For more information on
expressions, see Expression Operators . delimiter string The delimiter to use when splitting the string expression. delimiter can be any valid expression as long as
it resolves to a string. Behavior The $split operator returns an array.
The <string expression> and <delimiter> inputs must both be
strings. Otherwise, the operation fails with an error. Example Results { $split : [ "June-15-2013" , "-" ] } [ "June" , "15" , "2013" ] { $split : [ "banana split" , "a" ] } [ "b" , "n" , "n" , " split" ] { $split : [ "Hello World" , " " ] } [ "Hello" , "World" ] { $split : [ "astronomical" , "astro" ] } [ "" , "nomical" ] { $split : [ "pea green boat" , "owl" ] } [ "pea green boat" ] { $split: [ "headphone jack", 7 ] } Errors with message: "$split requires an expression that evaluates to a string as
a second argument, found: double" { $split: [ "headphone jack", /jack/ ] } Errors with message: "$split requires an expression that evaluates to a string as
a second argument, found: regex" Example A collection named deliveries contains the following documents: db. deliveries . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , city : "Berkeley, CA" , qty : 648 } , { _id : 2 , city : "Bend, OR" , qty : 491 } , { _id : 3 , city : "Kensington, CA" , qty : 233 } , { _id : 4 , city : "Eugene, OR" , qty : 842 } , { _id : 5 , city : "Reno, NV" , qty : 655 } , { _id : 6 , city : "Portland, OR" , qty : 408 } , { _id : 7 , city : "Sacramento, CA" , qty : 574 } ] ) The goal of following aggregation operation is to find the total
quantity of deliveries for each state and sort the list in
descending order. It has five pipeline stages: The $project stage produces documents with two fields, qty (integer) and city_state (array). The $split operator creates an array of strings by splitting the city field, using a comma followed by a space ( ", " ) as a delimiter. The $unwind stage creates a separate record for each
element in the city_state field. The $match stage uses a regular expression to filter out
the city documents, leaving only those containing a state. The $group stage groups all the states together and sums the qty field. The $sort stage sorts the results by total_qty in
descending order. db. deliveries . aggregate ( [ { $project : { city_state : { $split : [ "$city" , ", " ] } , qty : 1 } } , { $unwind : "$city_state" } , { $match : { city_state : / [A-Z] {2}/ } } , { $group : { _id : { state : "$city_state" } , total_qty : { $sum : "$qty" } } } , { $sort : { total_qty : - 1 } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : { state : "OR" } , total_qty : 1741 } , { _id : { state : "CA" } , total_qty : 1455 } , { _id : { state : "NV" } , total_qty : 655 } ] Back $sortArray Next $sqrt
