# $strcasecmp (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $strcasecmp (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $strcasecmp Performs case-insensitive comparison of two strings. Returns 1 if first string is "greater than" the second string. 0 if the two strings are equal. -1 if the first string is "less than" the second string. $strcasecmp has the following syntax: { $strcasecmp : [ < expression1 > , < expression2 > ] } The arguments can be any valid expression as long as they resolve to strings. For
more information on expressions, see Expression Operators . Behavior $strcasecmp only has a well-defined behavior for strings of ASCII characters. For a case sensitive comparison, see $cmp . Example Consider a inventory collection with the following documents: db. inventory . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "ABC1" , quarter : "13Q1" , "description" : "product 1" } , { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "ABC2" , quarter : "13Q4" , "description" : "product 2" } , { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "XYZ1" , quarter : "14Q2" , "description" : null } ] ) The following operation uses the $strcasecmp operator to
perform case-insensitive comparison of the quarter field value to
the string "13q4" : db. inventory . aggregate ( [ { $project : { item : 1 , comparisonResult : { $strcasecmp : [ "$quarter" , "13q4" ] } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "ABC1" , "comparisonResult" : - 1 } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "ABC2" , "comparisonResult" : 0 } { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "XYZ1" , "comparisonResult" : 1 } Back $stdDevSamp Next $strLenBytes
