# $month (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $month (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $month Returns the month of a date as a number between 1 and 12. The $month expression has the following operator expression syntax : { $month : < dateExpression > } The argument can be: An expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp , or an ObjectID . A document with this format: { date : < dateExpression > , timezone : < tzExpression > } Field Description date The date to which the operator is applied. <dateExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp ,
or an ObjectID . timezone Optional. The timezone of the operation result. <tzExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a string formatted as either
an Olson Timezone Identifier or a UTC Offset .
If no timezone is provided, the result is in UTC. Format Examples Olson Timezone Identifier "America/New_York" "Europe/London" "GMT" UTC Offset +/-[hh]:[mm], e.g. "+04:45" +/-[hh][mm], e.g. "-0530" +/-[hh], e.g. "+03" Behavior Example Result { $month : new Date ( "2016-01-01" ) } 1 { $month : { date : new Date ( "Nov 7, 2003" ) } } 11 { $month : ISODate ( "2000-01-01T00:00:00Z" ) } 1 { $month : { date : new Date ( "August 14, 2011" ) , timezone : "America/Chicago" } } 8 { $month : { date : ISODate ( "2000-01-01T00:00:00Z" ) , timezone : "-0500" } } 12 { $month : "March 28, 1976" } error { $month : { date : Date ( "2016-01-01" ) , timezone : "-0500" } } error { $month : "2009-04-09" } error Note $month cannot take a string as an argument. Example Consider a sales collection with the following document: db. sales . insertOne ( { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 10 , "quantity" : 2 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-01-01T08:15:39.736Z" ) } ) The following aggregation uses the $month and other
date operators to break down the date field: db. sales . aggregate ( [ { $project : { year : { $year : "$date" } , month : { $month : "$date" } , day : { $dayOfMonth : "$date" } , hour : { $hour : "$date" } , minutes : { $minute : "$date" } , seconds : { $second : "$date" } , milliseconds : { $millisecond : "$date" } , dayOfYear : { $dayOfYear : "$date" } , dayOfWeek : { $dayOfWeek : "$date" } , week : { $week : "$date" } } } ] ) The operation returns the following result: { "_id" : 1 , "year" : 2014 , "month" : 1 , "day" : 1 , "hour" : 8 , "minutes" : 15 , "seconds" : 39 , "milliseconds" : 736 , "dayOfYear" : 1 , "dayOfWeek" : 4 , "week" : 0 } Back $mod Next $multiply
