# $graphLookup (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Stages $graphLookup (aggregation) On this page Definition Considerations Examples Additional Resource Definition $graphLookup Changed in version 5.1 . Performs a recursive search on a collection, with options for
restricting the search by recursion depth and query filter. The $graphLookup search process is summarized below: Input documents flow into the $graphLookup stage of an
aggregation operation. $graphLookup targets the search to the collection
designated by the from parameter (see below for full
list of search parameters). For each input document, the search begins with the value
designated by startWith . $graphLookup matches the startWith value
against the field designated by connectToField in other
documents in the from collection. For each matching document, $graphLookup takes the value of
the connectFromField and checks every document in the from collection for a matching connectToField value. For
each match, $graphLookup adds the matching document in the from collection to an array field named by the as parameter. This step continues recursively until no more matching documents
are found, or until the operation reaches a recursion depth
specified by the maxDepth parameter. $graphLookup then
appends the array field to the input document. $graphLookup returns results after completing its search on all input
documents. $graphLookup has the following prototype form: { $graphLookup : { from : < collection > , startWith : < expression > , connectFromField : < string > , connectToField : < string > , as : < string > , maxDepth : < number > , depthField : < string > , restrictSearchWithMatch : < document > } } $graphLookup takes a document with the following fields: Field Description from Target collection for the $graphLookup operation to search, recursively matching the connectFromField to the connectToField .
The from collection must be in the same
database as any other collections used in the operation. Starting in MongoDB 5.1, the collection specified in the from parameter can be sharded. startWith Expression that specifies
the value of the connectFromField with which to start the
recursive search. Optionally, startWith may be array of
values, each of which is individually followed through the
traversal process. connectFromField Field name whose value $graphLookup uses to
recursively match against the connectToField of other
documents in the collection. If the value is an array, each
element is individually followed through the
traversal process. connectToField Field name in other documents against which to match the
value of the field specified by the connectFromField parameter. as Name of the array field added to each output document.
Contains the documents traversed in the $graphLookup stage to reach the document. Documents returned in the as field are not guaranteed to be in
any order. maxDepth Optional. Non-negative integral number specifying the
maximum recursion depth. depthField Optional. Name of the field to add to each traversed
document in the search path. The value of this field
is the recursion depth for the document, represented as a NumberLong . Recursion depth
value starts at zero, so the first lookup corresponds to
zero depth. restrictSearchWithMatch Optional. A document specifying additional conditions
for the recursive search. The syntax is identical to query filter syntax. You cannot use any aggregation expression in this filter. For example, you can't use
the following document to find documents in which the lastName value is different from the lastName value of the input document: { lastName : { $ne : "$lastName" } } You can't use the document in this context, because "$lastName" will act as a string literal, not a field path. Considerations Sharded Collections Starting in MongoDB 5.1, you can specify sharded collections in the from parameter of $graphLookup stages. You cannot use the $graphLookup stage within a transaction while
targeting a sharded collection. Max Depth Setting the maxDepth field to 0 is equivalent to a
non-recursive $graphLookup search stage. Memory The $graphLookup stage must stay within the 100 megabyte
memory limit. If allowDiskUse: true is specified for the aggregate() operation, the $graphLookup stage ignores the option. If there are other
stages in the aggregate() operation, allowDiskUse: true option is in effect for these other stages. See aggregration pipeline limitations for more information. Unsorted Results The $graphLookup stage does not return sorted results. To sort your results,
use the $sortArray operator. Views and Collation If performing an aggregation that involves multiple views, such as
with $lookup or $graphLookup , the views must
have the same collation . Examples Within a Single Collection A collection named employees has the following documents: db. employees . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" } , { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , reportsTo : "Dev" } , { _id : 3 , name : "Ron" , reportsTo : "Eliot" } , { _id : 4 , name : "Andrew" , reportsTo : "Eliot" } , { _id : 5 , name : "Asya" , reportsTo : "Ron" } , { _id : 6 , name : "Dan" , reportsTo : "Andrew" } ] ) The following $graphLookup operation recursively matches
on the reportsTo and name fields in the employees collection, returning the reporting hierarchy for each person: db. employees . aggregate ( [ { $graphLookup : { from : "employees" , startWith : "$reportsTo" , connectFromField : "reportsTo" , connectToField : "name" , as : "reportingHierarchy" } } ] ) The output resembles the following results: { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" , reportingHierarchy : [ ] } { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , reportsTo : "Dev" , reportingHierarchy : [ { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" } ] } { _id : 3 , name : "Ron" , reportsTo : "Eliot" , reportingHierarchy : [ { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , reportsTo : "Dev" } , { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" } ] } { _id : 4 , name : "Andrew" , reportsTo : "Eliot" , reportingHierarchy : [ { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , reportsTo : "Dev" } , { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" } ] } { _id : 5 , name : "Asya" , reportsTo : "Ron" , reportingHierarchy : [ { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , reportsTo : "Dev" } , { _id : 3 , name : "Ron" , reportsTo : "Eliot" } , { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" } ] } { "_id" : 6 , "name" : "Dan" , "reportsTo" : "Andrew" , "reportingHierarchy" : [ { _id : 4 , name : "Andrew" , reportsTo : "Eliot" } , { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , reportsTo : "Dev" } , { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" } ] } The following table provides a traversal path for the
document { "_id" : 5, "name" : "Asya", "reportsTo" : "Ron" } : Start value The reportsTo value of the document: { ... reportsTo : "Ron" } Depth 0 { _id : 3 , name : "Ron" , reportsTo : "Eliot" } Depth 1 { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , reportsTo : "Dev" } Depth 2 { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" } The output generates the hierarchy Asya -> Ron -> Eliot -> Dev . Across Multiple Collections Like $lookup , $graphLookup can access
another collection in the same database. For example, create a database with two collections: An airports collection with the following documents: db. airports . insertMany ( [ { _id : 0 , airport : "JFK" , connects : [ "BOS" , "ORD" ] } , { _id : 1 , airport : "BOS" , connects : [ "JFK" , "PWM" ] } , { _id : 2 , airport : "ORD" , connects : [ "JFK" ] } , { _id : 3 , airport : "PWM" , connects : [ "BOS" , "LHR" ] } , { _id : 4 , airport : "LHR" , connects : [ "PWM" ] } ] ) A travelers collection with the following documents: db. travelers . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" , nearestAirport : "JFK" } , { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , nearestAirport : "JFK" } , { _id : 3 , name : "Jeff" , nearestAirport : "BOS" } ] ) For each document in the travelers collection, the following
aggregation operation looks up the nearestAirport value in the airports collection and recursively matches the connects field to the airport field. The operation specifies a maximum
recursion depth of 2 . db. travelers . aggregate ( [ { $graphLookup : { from : "airports" , startWith : "$nearestAirport" , connectFromField : "connects" , connectToField : "airport" , maxDepth : 2 , depthField : "numConnections" , as : "destinations" } } ] ) The output resembles the following results: { _id : 1 , name : "Dev" , nearestAirport : "JFK" , destinations : [ { _id : 3 , airport : "PWM" , connects : [ "BOS" , "LHR" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 2 ) } , { _id : 2 , airport : "ORD" , connects : [ "JFK" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 1 ) } , { _id : 1 , airport : "BOS" , connects : [ "JFK" , "PWM" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 1 ) } , { _id : 0 , airport : "JFK" , connects : [ "BOS" , "ORD" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 0 ) } ] } { _id : 2 , name : "Eliot" , nearestAirport : "JFK" , destinations : [ { _id : 3 , airport : "PWM" , connects : [ "BOS" , "LHR" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 2 ) } , { _id : 2 , airport : "ORD" , connects : [ "JFK" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 1 ) } , { _id : 1 , airport : "BOS" , connects : [ "JFK" , "PWM" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 1 ) } , { _id : 0 , airport : "JFK" , connects : [ "BOS" , "ORD" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 0 ) } ] } { "_id" : 3 , name : "Jeff" , nearestAirport : "BOS" , destinations : [ { _id : 2 , airport : "ORD" , connects : [ "JFK" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 2 ) } , { _id : 3 , airport : "PWM" , connects : [ "BOS" , "LHR" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 1 ) } , { _id : 4 , airport : "LHR" , connects : [ "PWM" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 2 ) } , { _id : : 0 , airport : "JFK" , connects : [ "BOS" , "ORD" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 1 ) } , { _id : : 1 , airport : "BOS" , connects : [ "JFK" , "PWM" ] , numConnections : NumberLong ( 0 ) } ] } The following table provides a traversal path for the recursive
search, up to depth 2 , where the starting airport is JFK : Start value The nearestAirport value from the travelers collection: { ... nearestAirport : "JFK" } Depth 0 { _id : 0 , airport : "JFK" , connects : [ "BOS" , "ORD" ] } Depth 1 { _id : 1 , airport : "BOS" , connects : [ "JFK" , "PWM" ] } { _id : 2 , airport : "ORD" , connects : [ "JFK" ] } Depth 2 { _id : 3 , airport : "PWM" , connects : [ "BOS" , "LHR" ] } With a Query Filter The following example uses a collection with a set
of documents containing names of people along with arrays of their
friends and their hobbies. An aggregation operation finds one
particular person and traverses her network of connections to find
people who list golf among their hobbies. A collection named people contains the following documents: db. people . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , name : "Tanya Jordan" , friends : [ "Shirley Soto" , "Terry Hawkins" , "Carole Hale" ] , hobbies : [ "tennis" , "unicycling" , "golf" ] } , { _id : 2 , name : "Carole Hale" , friends : [ "Joseph Dennis" , "Tanya Jordan" , "Terry Hawkins" ] , hobbies : [ "archery" , "golf" , "woodworking" ] } , { _id : 3 , name : "Terry Hawkins" , friends : [ "Tanya Jordan" , "Carole Hale" , "Angelo Ward" ] , hobbies : [ "knitting" , "frisbee" ] } , { _id : 4 , name : "Joseph Dennis" , friends : [ "Angelo Ward" , "Carole Hale" ] , hobbies : [ "tennis" , "golf" , "topiary" ] } , { _id : 5 , name : "Angelo Ward" , friends : [ "Terry Hawkins" , "Shirley Soto" , "Joseph Dennis" ] , hobbies : [ "travel" , "ceramics" , "golf" ] } , { _id : 6 , name : "Shirley Soto" , friends : [ "Angelo Ward" , "Tanya Jordan" , "Carole Hale" ] , hobbies : [ "frisbee" , "set theory" ] } ] ) The following aggregation operation uses three stages: $match matches on documents with a name field
containing the string "Tanya Jordan" . Returns one output
document. $graphLookup connects the output document's friends field with the name field of other documents in the
collection to traverse Tanya Jordan's network of connections.
This stage uses the restrictSearchWithMatch parameter to find
only documents in which the hobbies array contains golf .
Returns one output document. $project shapes the output document. The names listed in connections who play golf are taken from the name field of the
documents listed in the input document's golfers array. db. people . aggregate ( [ { $match : { "name" : "Tanya Jordan" } } , { $graphLookup : { from : "people" , startWith : "$friends" , connectFromField : "friends" , connectToField : "name" , as : "golfers" , restrictSearchWithMatch : { "hobbies" : "golf" } } } , { $project : { "name" : 1 , "friends" : 1 , "connections who play golf" : "$golfers.name" } } ] ) The operation returns the following document: { _id : 1 , name : "Tanya Jordan" , friends : [ "Shirley Soto" , "Terry Hawkins" , "Carole Hale" ] , 'connections who play golf' : [ "Joseph Dennis" , "Tanya Jordan" , "Angelo Ward" , "Carole Hale" ] } Additional Resource Webinar: Working with Graph Data in MongoDB Back $geoNear Next $group
