# $indexOfBytes (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $indexOfBytes (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Examples Definition $indexOfBytes Searches a string for an occurrence of a substring and returns the
UTF-8 byte index (zero-based) of the first occurrence. If the
substring is not found, returns -1 . $indexOfBytes has the following operator
expression syntax : { $indexOfBytes : [ <string expression>, <substring expression>, <start>, <end> ] } Operand Description <string expression> Can be any valid expression as long as it resolves to a
string. For more information on expressions, see Expression Operators . If the string expression resolves to a value of null or
refers to a field that is missing, $indexOfBytes returns null . If the string expression does not resolve to a string or null nor
refers to a missing field, $indexOfBytes returns an error. <substring expression> Can be any valid expression as long as it resolves to a
string. For more information on expressions, see Expression Operators . <start> Optional An integral number that specifies the starting index
position for the search. Can be any valid expression that resolves to
a non-negative integral number. <end> Optional An integral number that specifies the ending index
position for the search. Can be any valid expression that resolves to
a non-negative integral number. If you specify a <end> index
value, you should also specify a <start> index value;
otherwise, $indexOfBytes uses the <end> value as the <start> index value instead of the <end> value. Behavior If <string expression> is null, $indexOfBytes returns null . If $indexOfBytes is called on a field that doesn't exist in the document, $indexOfBytes returns null . If <string expression> is not a string and not null, $indexOfBytes returns an error. If <substring expression> is null, $indexOfBytes returns an error. If <start> or <end> is a negative number, $indexOfBytes returns an error. If <start> is a number greater than <end> , $indexOfBytes returns -1 . If <start> is a number greater than the byte length of the string, $indexOfBytes returns -1 . If <start> or <end> is given a value that is not an integer, $indexOfBytes returns an error. If the <substring expression> is found multiple times within the <string expression> , then $indexOfBytes returns the index of the first <substring expression> found. Some short examples to highlight different behavior: Example Results { $indexOfBytes: [ "cafeteria", "e" ] } 3 { $indexOfBytes: [ "cafétéria", "é" ] } 3 { $indexOfBytes: [ "cafétéria", "e" ] } -1 { $indexOfBytes: [ "cafétéria", "t" ] } 5 { $indexOfBytes: [ "foo.bar.fi", ".", 5 ] } 7 { $indexOfBytes: [ "vanilla", "ll", 0, 2 ] } -1 { $indexOfBytes: [ "vanilla", "ll", -1 ] } -1 { $indexOfBytes: [ "vanilla", "ll", 12 ] } -1 { $indexOfBytes: [ "vanilla", "ll", 5, 2 ] } -1 { $indexOfBytes: [ "vanilla", "nilla", 3 ] } -1 { $indexOfBytes: [ null, "foo" ] } null Examples Consider an inventory collection with the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "foo" } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "fóofoo" } { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "the foo bar" } { "_id" : 4 , "item" : "hello world fóo" } { "_id" : 5 , "item" : null } { "_id" : 6 , "amount" : 3 } The following operation uses the $indexOfBytes operator to
retrieve the indexes at which the string foo is located in each item: db. inventory . aggregate ( [ { $project : { byteLocation : { $indexOfBytes : [ "$item" , "foo" ] } , } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: { "_id" : 1 , "byteLocation" : "0" } { "_id" : 2 , "byteLocation" : "4" } { "_id" : 3 , "byteLocation" : "4" } { "_id" : 4 , "byteLocation" : "-1" } { "_id" : 5 , "byteLocation" : null } { "_id" : 6 , "byteLocation" : null } Tip See also: $indexOfCP $indexOfArray Back $indexOfArray Next $indexOfCP
