# Scheduled Triggers - MongoDB Atlas


Docs Home / MongoDB Atlas / Interact with Data / Triggers Scheduled Triggers On this page Create a Scheduled Trigger Configuration CRON Expressions Expression Syntax Format Field Values Example Performance Optimization Scheduled Triggers allow you to execute server-side logic on a regular schedule that you define .
You can use scheduled Triggers to do work that happens on a periodic
basis, such as updating a document every minute, generating a nightly
report, or sending an automated weekly email newsletter. Create a Scheduled Trigger You can create a new scheduled Trigger from the Atlas UI or using the
App Services CLI. Atlas UI App Services CLI Navigate to the Triggers Page If it's not already displayed, select the
organization that contains your project from the Organizations menu in the navigation bar. If it's not already displayed, select your project
from the Projects menu in the navigation bar. In the sidebar, click Triggers under
the Services heading. The Triggers page displays. Click Add Trigger to open the Trigger configuration page. Select Scheduled Trigger type. Configure the Trigger, then click Save . Authenticate a MongoDB Atlas user: Use your MongoDB Atlas Administration API Key to
log in to the App Services CLI: appservices login --api-key="<API KEY>" --private-api-key="<PRIVATE KEY>" Pull your App's latest configuration files: Run the following command to get a local copy of your configuration files: appservices pull --remote=<App ID> By default, the command pulls files into the current working directory. You can
specify a directory path with the optional --local flag. Add a scheduled Trigger configuration file to the triggers subdirectory of your local
application directory. Note You cannot create a Trigger that runs on a Basic schedule using the App Services CLI. All imported scheduled Trigger
configurations must specify a CRON expression . Scheduled Trigger configuration files have the following form: /triggers/<triggers name>.json { "type" : "SCHEDULED" , "name" : "<Trigger Name>" , "function_name" : "<Trigger Function Name>" , "config" : { "schedule" : "<CRON expression>" } , "disabled" : <boolean> } Deploy your changes: Run the following command to deploy your changes: appservices push Configuration Scheduled Triggers have the following configuration options: Field Description Trigger Type type: <string> Select Scheduled . Schedule Type config.schedule: <string> Required. You can select Basic or Advanced . A Basic
schedule executes the Trigger periodically based on the interval you set,
such as "every five minutes" or "every Monday". An Advanced schedule runs the Trigger based on the custom CRON expression that you define. Skip Events on Re-Enable skip_catchup_event: <boolean> Disabled by default. If enabled, any change events that occurred while
this Trigger was disabled will not be processed. Event Type function_name: <string> Within the Event Type section, you choose what action is taken when
the Trigger fires. You can choose to run a Function or use AWS EventBridge . A Scheduled Trigger does not pass any arguments to its linked
Function. Trigger Name name: <string> The name of the trigger. CRON Expressions CRON expressions are user-defined strings that use standard cron job syntax to define when a scheduled
Trigger should execute. Atlas executes Trigger CRON expressions based on UTC time . Whenever all of the fields
in a CRON expression match the current date and time, Atlas fires the
Trigger associated with the expression. Expression Syntax Format CRON expressions are strings composed of five space-delimited fields.
Each field defines a granular portion of the schedule on which its
associated Trigger executes: * * * * * │ │ │ │ └── weekday...........[0 (SUN) - 6 (SAT)] │ │ │ └──── month.............[1 (JAN) - 12 (DEC)] │ │ └────── dayOfMonth........[1 - 31] │ └──────── hour..............[0 - 23] └────────── minute............[0 - 59] Field Valid Values Description minute [0 - 59] Represents one or more minutes within an hour. If the minute field of a CRON expression has a value of 10 , the field matches any time ten minutes after the hour
(e.g. 9:10 AM ). hour [0 - 23] Represents one or more hours within a day on a 24-hour clock. If the hour field of a CRON expression has a value of 15 , the field matches any time between 3:00 PM and 3:59 PM . dayOfMonth [1 - 31] Represents one or more days within a month. If the dayOfMonth field of a CRON expression has a value
of 3 , the field matches any time on the third day of the
month. month 1  (JAN) 7  (JUL) 2  (FEB) 8  (AUG) 3  (MAR) 9  (SEP) 4  (APR) 10 (OCT) 5  (MAY) 11 (NOV) 6  (JUN) 12 (DEC) Represents one or more months within a year. A month can be represented by either a number (e.g. 2 for
February) or a three-letter string (e.g. APR for April). If the month field of a CRON expression has a value of 9 , the field matches any time in the month of September. weekday 0 (SUN) 1 (MON) 2 (TUE) 3 (WED) 4 (THU) 5 (FRI) 6 (SAT) Represents one or more days within a week. A weekday can be represented by either a number (e.g. 2 for a
Tuesday) or a three-letter string (e.g. THU for a Thursday). If the weekday field of a CRON expression has a value of 3 , the field matches any time on a Wednesday. Field Values Each field in a CRON expression can contain either a specific value or
an expression that evaluates to a set of values. The following table
describes valid field values and expressions: Expression Type Description All Values (*) Matches all possible field values. Available in all expression fields. The following CRON expression schedules a Trigger to execute
once every minute of every day: * * * * * Specific Value (<Value>) Matches a specific field value. For fields other than weekday and month this value will always be an integer. A weekday or month field can be either an integer or a three-letter
string (e.g. TUE or AUG ). Available in all expression fields. The following CRON expression schedules a Trigger to execute
once every day at 11:00 AM UTC: 0 11 * * * List of Values (<Expression1>,<Expression2>,...) Matches a list of two or more field expressions or specific
values. Available in all expression fields. The following CRON expression schedules a Trigger to execute
once every day in January, March, and July at 11:00 AM UTC: 0 11 * 1,3,7 * Range of Values (<Start Value>-<End Value>) Matches a continuous range of field values between and including
two specific field values. Available in all expression fields. The following CRON expression schedules a Trigger to execute
once every day from January 1st through the end of April at
11:00 AM UTC: 0 11 * 1-4 * Modular Time Step (<Field Expression>/<Step Value>) Matches any time where the step value evenly divides the
field value with no remainder (i.e. when Value % Step == 0 ). Available in the minute and hour expression fields. The following CRON expression schedules a Trigger to execute
on the 0th, 25th, and 50th minutes of every hour: */25 * * * * Example An online store wants to generate a daily report of all sales from the
previous day. They record all orders in the store.orders collection
as documents that resemble the following: { _id : ObjectId( "59cf1860a95168b8f685e378" ) , customerId : ObjectId( "59cf17e1a95168b8f685e377" ) , orderDate : ISODate( "2018-06-26T16:20:42.313Z" ) , shipDate : ISODate( "2018-06-27T08:20:23.311Z" ) , orderContents : [ { qty : 1 , name : "Earl Grey Tea Bags - 100ct" , price : Decimal128( "10.99" ) } ] , shippingLocation : [ { location : "Memphis" , time : ISODate( "2018-06-27T18:22:33.243Z" ) } , ] } Atlas UI App Services CLI Trigger Configuration { "type" : "SCHEDULED" , "name" : "reportDailyOrders" , "function_name" : "generateDailyReport" , "config" : { "schedule" : "0 7 * * *" } , "disabled" : false } To generate the daily report, the store creates a scheduled Trigger
that fires every day at 7:00 AM UTC . When the
Trigger fires, it calls its linked Atlas Function, generateDailyReport , which runs an aggregation
query on the store.orders collection to generate the report. The
Function then stores the result of the aggregation in the store.reports collection. generateDailyReport exports = function ( ) { // Instantiate MongoDB collection handles const mongodb = context. services . get ( "mongodb-atlas" ) ; const orders = mongodb. db ( "store" ). collection ( "orders" ) ; const reports = mongodb. db ( "store" ). collection ( "reports" ) ; // Generate the daily report return orders. aggregate ( [ // Only report on orders placed since yesterday morning { $match : { orderDate : { $gte : makeYesterdayMorningDate ( ) , $lt : makeThisMorningDate ( ) } } } , // Add a boolean field that indicates if the order has already shipped { $addFields : { orderHasShipped : { $cond : { if : "$shipDate" , // if shipDate field exists then : 1 , else : 0 } } } } , // Unwind individual items within each order { $unwind : { path : "$orderContents" } } , // Calculate summary metrics for yesterday's orders { $group : { _id : "$orderDate" , orderIds : { $addToSet : "$_id" } , numSKUsOrdered : { $sum : 1 } , numItemsOrdered : { $sum : "$orderContents.qty" } , totalSales : { $sum : "$orderContents.price" } , averageOrderSales : { $avg : "$orderContents.price" } , numItemsShipped : { $sum : "$orderHasShipped" } , } } , // Add the total number of orders placed { $addFields : { numOrders : { $size : "$orderIds" } } } ]). next ( ) . then ( dailyReport => { reports. insertOne ( dailyReport) ; }) . catch ( err => console . error ( "Failed to generate report:" , err)) ; } ; function makeThisMorningDate ( ) { return setTimeToMorning ( new Date ( )) ; } function makeYesterdayMorningDate ( ) { const thisMorning = makeThisMorningDate ( ) ; const yesterdayMorning = new Date ( thisMorning) ; yesterdayMorning. setDate ( thisMorning. getDate ( ) - 1 ) ; return yesterdayMorning ; } function setTimeToMorning ( date ) { date. setHours ( 7 ) ; date. setMinutes ( 0 ) ; date. setSeconds ( 0 ) ; date. setMilliseconds ( 0 ) ; return date ; } Performance Optimization Use the Query API with a $match expression to reduce the number of documents your Function looks at.
This helps your Function improve performance and not reach Function memory limits . See also the Example section for a Scheduled Trigger using a $match expression . Back Database Triggers Next Authentication Triggers
