# $toInt (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $toInt (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $toInt Converts a value to an integer. If the value cannot be converted
to an integer, $toInt errors. If the value is null or
missing, $toInt returns null. $toInt has the following syntax: { $toInt : < expression > } The $toInt takes any valid expression . The $toInt is a shorthand for the following $convert expression: { $convert : { input : < expression > , to : "int" } } Tip See also: $convert Behavior The following table lists the input types that can be converted to an
integer: Input Type Behavior Boolean Returns 0 for false . Returns 1 for true . Double Returns truncated value. The truncated double value must fall within the minimum and
maximum value for an integer. You cannot convert a double value whose truncated value is less
than the minimum integer value or is greater than the maximum
integer value. Decimal Returns truncated value. The truncated decimal value must fall within the minimum and
maximum value for an integer. You cannot convert a decimal value whose truncated value is less
than the minimum integer value or is greater than the maximum
integer value. Integer No-op. Returns the integer value. Long Returns the long value as an integer. The long value must fall within the minimum and maximum value
for an integer. You cannot convert a long value that is less than the minimum
integer value or is greater than the maximum integer value. String Returns the numerical value of the string as an integer. The string value must be a base 10 integer; e.g. "-5" , "123456" ). You cannot convert a string value of a float or decimal or
non-base 10 number (e.g. "-5.0" , "0x6400" ) The following table lists some conversion to integer examples: Example Results $toInt: true 1 $toInt: false 0 $toInt: 1.99999 1 $toInt: NumberDecimal("5.5000") 5 $toInt: NumberDecimal("9223372036000.000") Error $toInt: NumberLong("5000") 5000 $toInt: NumberLong("922337203600") Error $toInt: "-2" -2 $toInt: "2.5" Error $toInt: null null Example Create a collection orders with the following documents: db. orders . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , item : "apple" , qty : "5" , price : 10 } , { _id : 2 , item : "pie" , qty : "10" , price : NumberDecimal ( "20.0" ) } , { _id : 3 , item : "ice cream" , qty : "2" , price : "4.99" } , { _id : 4 , item : "almonds" , qty : "5" , price : 5 } ] ) The following aggregation operation: converts qty to an integer, converts price to a decimal, calculates the total price: // Define stage to add convertedPrice and convertedQty fields with the converted price and qty values priceQtyConversionStage = { $addFields : { convertedPrice : { $toDecimal : "$price" } , convertedQty : { $toInt : "$qty" } , } } ; // Define stage to calculate total price by multiplying convertedPrice and convertedQty fields totalPriceCalculationStage = { $project : { item : 1 , totalPrice : { $multiply : [ "$convertedPrice" , "$convertedQty" ] } } } ; db. orders . aggregate ( [ priceQtyConversionStage , totalPriceCalculationStage ] ) The operation returns the following documents: { _id : 1 , item : 'apple' , totalPrice : Decimal128 ( "50" ) } , { _id : 2 , item : 'pie' , totalPrice : Decimal128 ( "200.0" ) } , { _id : 3 , item : 'ice cream' , totalPrice : Decimal128 ( "9.98" ) } , { _id : 4 , item : 'almonds' , totalPrice : Decimal128 ( "25" ) } Note If the conversion operation encounters an error, the aggregation
operation stops and throws an error. To override this behavior, use $convert instead. Back $toHashedIndexKey Next $toLong
