# $dateToParts (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $dateToParts (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $dateToParts Returns a document that contains the constituent parts of a given
BSON Date value as individual properties. The properties returned
are year , month , day , hour , minute , second and millisecond . You can set the iso8601 property to true to return the parts
representing an ISO week date instead. This will return a document where the properties are isoWeekYear , isoWeek , isoDayOfWeek , hour , minute , second and millisecond . The $dateToParts expression has the following syntax: { $dateToParts : { 'date' : < dateExpression > , 'timezone' : < timezone > , 'iso8601' : < boolean > } } The $dateToParts takes a document with the following fields: Field Required/Optional Description date Required The input date for which to return parts. <dateExpression> can be any expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp , or an ObjectID . For more
information on expressions, see Expression Operators . timezone Optional The timezone to use to format the date. By default, $dateToParts uses UTC. <timezone> can be any expression that evaluates to a string whose
value is either: an Olson Timezone Identifier ,
such as "Europe/London" or "America/New_York" , or a UTC offset in the form: +/-[hh]:[mm] , e.g. "+04:45" , or +/-[hh][mm] , e.g. "-0530" , or +/-[hh] , e.g. "+03" . For more information on expressions, see Expression Operators . iso8601 Optional If set to true , modifies the output document to use ISO
week date fields. Defaults to false . Behavior When using an Olson Timezone Identifier in the <timezone> field, MongoDB applies the DST offset
if applicable for the specified timezone. For example, consider a sales collection with the following document: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 20 , "quantity" : 5 , "date" : ISODate ( "2017-05-20T10:24:51.303Z" ) } The following aggregation illustrates how MongoDB handles the DST
offset for the Olson Timezone Identifier. The example uses the $hour and $minute operators to return the
corresponding portions of the date field: db. sales . aggregate ( [ { $project : { "nycHour" : { $hour : { date : "$date" , timezone : "-05:00" } } , "nycMinute" : { $minute : { date : "$date" , timezone : "-05:00" } } , "gmtHour" : { $hour : { date : "$date" , timezone : "GMT" } } , "gmtMinute" : { $minute : { date : "$date" , timezone : "GMT" } } , "nycOlsonHour" : { $hour : { date : "$date" , timezone : "America/New_York" } } , "nycOlsonMinute" : { $minute : { date : "$date" , timezone : "America/New_York" } } } }]) The operation returns the following result: { "_id" : 1 , "nycHour" : 5 , "nycMinute" : 24 , "gmtHour" : 10 , "gmtMinute" : 24 , "nycOlsonHour" : 6 , "nycOlsonMinute" : 24 } Example Consider a sales collection with the following document: { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 10 , "quantity" : 2 , "date" : ISODate ( "2017-01-01T01:29:09.123Z" ) } The following aggregation uses $dateToParts to return a
document that contains the constituent parts of the date field. db. sales . aggregate ( [ { $project : { date : { $dateToParts : { date : "$date" } } , date_iso : { $dateToParts : { date : "$date" , iso8601 : true } } , date_timezone : { $dateToParts : { date : "$date" , timezone : "America/New_York" } } } }]) The operation returns the following result: { "_id" : 2 , "date" : { "year" : 2017 , "month" : 1 , "day" : 1 , "hour" : 1 , "minute" : 29 , "second" : 9 , "millisecond" : 123 } , "date_iso" : { "isoWeekYear" : 2016 , "isoWeek" : 52 , "isoDayOfWeek" : 7 , "hour" : 1 , "minute" : 29 , "second" : 9 , "millisecond" : 123 } , "date_timezone" : { "year" : 2016 , "month" : 12 , "day" : 31 , "hour" : 20 , "minute" : 29 , "second" : 9 , "millisecond" : 123 } } Back $dateSubtract Next $dateToString (aggregation)
