# Indexing Reference - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Indexes Indexing Reference On this page Indexing Methods in mongosh Indexing Database Commands Geospatial Query Selectors Indexing Methods in mongosh Name Description db.collection.createIndex() Builds an index on a collection. db.collection.dropIndex() Removes a specified index on a collection. db.collection.dropIndexes() Removes all indexes on a collection. db.collection.getIndexes() Returns an array of documents that describe the existing indexes on a collection. db.collection.reIndex() Rebuilds all existing indexes on a collection. db.collection.totalIndexSize() Reports the total size used by the indexes on a collection. Provides a wrapper around the totalIndexSize field of the collStats output. cursor.explain() Reports on the query execution plan for a cursor. cursor.hint() Forces MongoDB to use a specific index for a query. cursor.max() Specifies an exclusive upper index bound for a cursor. For use with cursor.hint() cursor.min() Specifies an inclusive lower index bound for a cursor. For use with cursor.hint() Indexing Database Commands Name Description createIndexes Builds one or more indexes for a collection. dropIndexes Removes indexes from a collection. compact Defragments a collection and rebuilds the indexes. reIndex Rebuilds all indexes on a collection. validate Internal command that scans for a collection's data and indexes for correctness. geoSearch Removed in MongoDB 5.0. Performs a geospatial query that uses
MongoDB's haystack index functionality. setIndexCommitQuorum Changes the minimum number of data-bearing members (i.e commit
quorum), including the primary, that must vote to commit an
in-progress index build before the primary marks
those indexes as ready. Geospatial Query Selectors Name Description $geoWithin Selects geometries within a bounding GeoJSON geometry . The 2dsphere and 2d indexes support $geoWithin . $geoIntersects Selects geometries that intersect with a GeoJSON geometry.
The 2dsphere index supports $geoIntersects . $near Returns geospatial objects in proximity to a point.
Requires a geospatial index.  The 2dsphere and 2d indexes support $near . $nearSphere Returns geospatial objects in proximity to a point on a sphere.
Requires a geospatial index.  The 2dsphere and 2d indexes support $nearSphere . Back Ensure Query Selectivity Next Time Series
