# $firstN - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $firstN On this page Definition Aggregation Accumulator Syntax Behavior Restrictions Examples Array Operator Syntax Behavior Example Definition New in version 5.2 . $firstN can be used as an aggregation accumulator or array operator. As
an aggregation accumulator, it returns an aggregation of the first n elements within a group. As an array operator, it returns the
specified number of elements from the beginning of an array. Aggregation Accumulator $firstN When $firstN is used as an aggregation accumulator, the elements returned
are meaningful only if they are in a specified sort order.  If the group contains
fewer than n elements, $firstN returns all elements in the group. Syntax When used as an aggregation accumulator, $firstN has the following syntax: { $firstN: { input: <expression>, n: <expression> } } input specifies the field(s) from the document to take the first n of. Input can be any expression. n has to be a positive integral expression that is either a
constant or depends on the _id value for $group .
For details see group key example . Behavior Null and Missing Values $firstN does not filter out null values. $firstN converts missing values to null. Consider the following aggregation that returns the first five documents
from a group: db. aggregate ( [ { $documents : [ { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G1" , score : 1 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G1" , score : 2 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G1" , score : 3 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G1" } , { playerId : "PlayerE" , gameId : "G1" , score : null } ] } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , firstFiveScores : { $firstN : { input : "$score" , n : 5 } } } } ] ) In this example: $documents creates the literal documents that contain
player scores. $group groups the documents by gameId . This
example has only one gameId , G1 . PlayerD has a missing score and PlayerE has a
null score . These values are both considered as null. The firstFiveScores field is specified using input : "$score" and returned as an array. Since there is no sort criteria the first 5 score fields are returned. [ { _id : 'G1' , firstFiveScores : [ 1 , 2 , 3 , null , null ] } ] Comparison of $firstN and $topN Accumulators Both $firstN and $topN accumulators can accomplish similar
results. In general: If the documents coming into $group are already ordered,
you should use $firstN . If you're sorting and selecting the top n elements then you can use $topN to accomplish both tasks with one accumulator. $firstN can be used as an aggregation expression, $topN cannot. Restrictions Window Function and Aggregation Expression Support $firstN is supported as an aggregation expression . $firstN is supported as a window operator . Examples Consider a gamescores collection with the following documents: db. gamescores . insertMany ( [ { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G1" , score : 31 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G1" , score : 33 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G1" , score : 99 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G1" , score : 1 } , { playerId : "PlayerA" , gameId : "G2" , score : 10 } , { playerId : "PlayerB" , gameId : "G2" , score : 14 } , { playerId : "PlayerC" , gameId : "G2" , score : 66 } , { playerId : "PlayerD" , gameId : "G2" , score : 80 } ]) Find the First Three Player Scores for a Single Game You can use the $firstN accumulator to find the first three scores
in a single game. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $match : { gameId : "G1" } } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , firstThreeScores : { $firstN : { input : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $match to filter the results on a single gameId .
In this case, G1 . Uses $group to group the results by gameId . In this
case, G1 . Specifies the fields that are input for $firstN with input : ["$playerId"," $score"] . Uses $firstN to return the first three documents
for the G1 game with n : 3 . The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : 'G1' , firstThreeScores : [ [ 'PlayerA' , 31 ] , [ 'PlayerB' , 33 ] , [ 'PlayerC' , 99 ] ] } ] Finding the First Three Player Scores Across Multiple Games You can use the $firstN accumulator to find the first n input fields in each game. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $firstN : { input : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $group to group the results by gameId . Uses $firstN to return the first three documents
for each game with n: 3 . Specifies the fields that are input for $firstN with input : ["$playerId", "$score"] . The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : 'G1' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerA' , 31 ] , [ 'PlayerB' , 33 ] , [ 'PlayerC' , 99 ] ] } , { _id : 'G2' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerA' , 10 ] , [ 'PlayerB' , 14 ] , [ 'PlayerC' , 66 ] ] } ] Using $sort With $firstN Using a $sort stage earlier in the pipeline can influence the
results of the $firstN accumulator. In this example: {$sort : { score : -1 } } sorts the highest scores to the back of
each group. firstN returns the three highest scores from front of each group. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $sort : { score : - 1 } } , { $group : { _id : "$gameId" , playerId : { $firstN : { input : [ "$playerId" , "$score" ] , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : 'G2' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerD' , 80 ] , [ 'PlayerC' , 66 ] , [ 'PlayerB' , 14 ] ] } , { _id : 'G1' , playerId : [ [ 'PlayerC' , 99 ] , [ 'PlayerB' , 33 ] , [ 'PlayerA' , 31 ] ] } ] Computing n Based on the Group Key for $group You can also assign the value of n dynamically. In this example,
the $cond expression is used on the gameId field. db. gamescores . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : { "gameId" : "$gameId" } , gamescores : { $firstN : { input : "$score" , n : { $cond : { if : { $eq : [ "$gameId" , "G2" ] } , then : 1 , else : 3 } } } } } } ] ) The example pipeline: Uses $group to group the results by gameId . Specifies the fields that input for $firstN with input : "$score" . If the gameId is G2 then n is 1, otherwise n is 3. The operation returns the following results: [ { _id : { gameId : 'G1' } , gamescores : [ 31 , 33 , 99 ] } , { _id : { gameId : 'G2' } , gamescores : [ 10 ] } ] Using $firstN as an Aggregation Expression You can also use $firstN as an aggregation expression. In this example: $documents creates the literal document that contains
an array of values. $project is used to return the output of $firstN . _id is omited from the output with _id : 0 . $firstN uses the input array of [10, 20, 30, 40] . The first three elements of the array are returned for the input
document. db. aggregate ( [ { $documents : [ { array : [ 10 , 20 , 30 , 40 ] } ] } , { $project : { firstThreeElements : { $firstN : { input : "$array" , n : 3 } } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: [ { firstThreeElements : [ 10 , 20 , 30 ] } ] Array Operator $firstN Syntax When used as an array operator, $firstN has the following syntax: { $firstN : { n : < expression > , input : < expression > } } Field Description n An expression that resolves to a
positive integer. The integer specifies the number of array elements
that $firstN returns. input An expression that resolves to the
array from which to return n elements. Behavior $firstN returns elements in the same order they appear in
the input array. $firstN does not filter out null values in the input
array. You cannot specify a value of n less than 1 . If the specified n is greater than or equal to the number of elements
in the input array, $firstN returns the input array. If input resolves to a non-array value, the aggregation operation
errors. Example The collection games has the following documents: db. games . insertMany ( [ { "playerId" : 1 , "score" : [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] } , { "playerId" : 2 , "score" : [ 12 , 90 , 7 , 89 , 8 ] } , { "playerId" : 3 , "score" : [ null ] } , { "playerId" : 4 , "score" : [ ] } , { "playerId" : 5 , "score" : [ 1293 , null , 3489 , 9 ]} , { "playerId" : 6 , "score" : [ "12.1" , 2 , NumberLong ( "2090845886852" ) , 23 ]} ]) The following example uses the $firstN operator to retrieve the
first three scores for each player. The scores are returned in the new field firstScores created by $addFields . db. games . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { firstScores : { $firstN : { n : 3 , input : "$score" } } } } ]) The operation returns the following results: [ { "playerId" : 1 , "score" : [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] , "firstScores" : [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] } , { "playerId" : 2 , "score" : [ 12 , 90 , 7 , 89 , 8 ] , "firstScores" : [ 12 , 90 , 7 ] } , { "playerId" : 3 , "score" : [ null ] , "firstScores" : [ null ] } , { "playerId" : 4 , "score" : [ ] , "firstScores" : [ ] } , { "playerId" : 5 , "score" : [ 1293 , null , 3489 , 9 ] , "firstScores" : [ 1293 , null , 3489 ] } , { "playerId" : 6 , "score" : [ "12.1" , 2 , NumberLong ( "2090845886852" ) , 23 ] , "firstScores" : [ "12.1" , 2 , NumberLong ( "2090845886852" ) ] }] Tip See also: $lastN $sortArray Back $first Next $floor
