# Query for Locations Near a Point on a Sphere - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Indexes / Types / Geospatial / 2dsphere / Query Query for Locations Near a Point on a Sphere On this page About this Task Before You Begin Procedure Learn More You can query for location data that appears near a specified point on a
sphere. To query for location data near a specified point, use the $near operator: db. < collection > . find ( { <location field> : { $near : { $geometry : { type : "Point", coordinates : [ <longitude>, <latitude> ] }, $maxDistance : <distance in meters> } } } ) About this Task When you specify longitude and latitude coordinates, list the longitude first, and then latitude . Valid longitude values are between -180 and 180 , both
inclusive. Valid latitude values are between -90 and 90 , both
inclusive. Specify distance in the $maxDistance field in meters . Before You Begin Create a places collection that contains these documents: db. places . insertMany ( [ { loc : { type : "Point" , coordinates : [ - 73.97 , 40.77 ] } , name : "Central Park" , category : "Park" } , { loc : { type : "Point" , coordinates : [ - 73.88 , 40.78 ] } , name : "La Guardia Airport" , category : "Airport" } , { loc : { type : "Point" , coordinates : [ - 1.83 , 51.18 ] } , name : "Stonehenge" , category : "Monument" } ] ) The values in the loc field are GeoJSON points . To query for location data with the $near operator, you must create
a geospatial index on the field that contains
the location data. Create a 2dsphere index on the loc field: db. places . createIndex ( { "loc" : "2dsphere" } ) Procedure Use $near to query the collection. The following $near query
returns documents that have a loc field within 5000 meters of a
GeoJSON point located at [ -73.92, 40.78 ] : db. places . find ( { loc : { $near : { $geometry : { type : "Point" , coordinates : [ - 73.92 , 40.78 ] } , $maxDistance : 5000 } } } ) Output: [ { _id : ObjectId ( "63f7c3b15e5eefbdfef81cab" ) , loc : { type : 'Point' , coordinates : [ - 73.88 , 40.78 ] } , name : 'La Guardia Airport' , category : 'Airport' } , { _id : ObjectId ( "63f7c3b15e5eefbdfef81caa" ) , loc : { type : 'Point' , coordinates : [ - 73.97 , 40.77 ] } , name : 'Central Park' , category : 'Park' } ] Results are sorted by distance from the queried point, from nearest to
farthest. Learn More $near $nearSphere $geoNear Point Geospatial Index Restrictions Back Polygons Next Intersections
