# $regexFind (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $regexFind (aggregation) On this page Definition Syntax Behavior Examples Definition $regexFind Provides regular expression (regex) pattern matching capability in
aggregation expressions. If a match is found, returns a document
that contains information on the first match. If a match is not
found, returns null. Syntax The $regexFind operator has the following syntax: { $regexFind : { input : < expression > , regex : < expression > , options : < expression > } } Operator Fields Field Description input The string on which you wish to apply the regex pattern .
Can be a string or any valid expression that resolves to a string. regex The regex pattern to apply. Can be any valid expression that resolves to either a string or regex
pattern /<pattern>/ . When using the regex /<pattern>/ , you
can also specify the regex options i and m (but not the s or x options): "pattern" /<pattern>/ /<pattern>/<options> Alternatively, you can also specify the regex options with the options field. To specify the s or x options, you
must use the options field. You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. options Optional . The following <options> are available for use
with regular expression. You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. Option Description i Case insensitivity to match both upper and lower cases. You
can specify the option in the options field or as part of
the regex field. m For patterns that include anchors (i.e. ^ for the start, $ for the end), match at the beginning or end of each
line for strings with multiline values. Without this option,
these anchors match at beginning or end of the string. If the pattern contains no anchors or if the string value has
no newline characters (e.g. \n ), the m option has no
effect. x "Extended" capability to ignore all white space characters
in the pattern unless escaped or included in a character
class. Additionally, it ignores characters in-between and including
an un-escaped hash/pound ( # ) character and the next new
line, so that you may include comments in complicated
patterns. This only applies to data characters; white space
characters may never appear within special character
sequences in a pattern. The x option does not affect the handling of the VT
character (i.e. code 11). You can specify the option only in the options field. s Allows the dot character (i.e. . ) to match all
characters including newline characters. You can specify the option only in the options field. Returns If the operator does not find a match, the result of the operator is a null . If the operator finds a match, the result of the operator is a document
that contains: the first matching string in the input , the code point index
(not byte index) of the matching string in the input , and An array of the strings that corresponds to the groups captured by
the matching string. Capturing groups are specified with
unescaped parenthesis () in the regex pattern. { "match" : < string > , "idx" : < num > , "captures" : < array of strings > } Tip See also: $regexFindAll $regexMatch Behavior PCRE Library Starting in version 6.1, MongoDB uses the PCRE2 (Perl Compatible Regular Expressions) library to
implement regular expression pattern matching. To learn more about
PCRE2, see the PCRE Documentation . $regexFind and Collation $regexFind ignores the collation specified for the
collection, db.collection.aggregate() , and the index, if used. For example, the create a sample collection with collation strength 1 (i.e. compare base character only and ignore other differences
such as case and diacritics): db. createCollection ( "myColl" , { collation : { locale : "fr" , strength : 1 } } ) Insert the following documents: db. myColl . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , category : "café" } , { _id : 2 , category : "cafe" } , { _id : 3 , category : "cafE" } ]) Using the collection's collation, the following operation performs a
case-insensitive and diacritic-insensitive match: db. myColl . aggregate ( [ { $match : { category : "cafe" } } ] ) The operation returns the following 3 documents: { "_id" : 1 , "category" : "café" } { "_id" : 2 , "category" : "cafe" } { "_id" : 3 , "category" : "cafE" } However, the aggregation expression $regexFind ignores
collation; that is, the following regular expression pattern matching examples
are case-sensitive and diacritic sensitive: db. myColl . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { resultObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$category" , regex : /cafe/ }  } } } ] ) db. myColl . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { resultObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$category" , regex : /cafe/ }  } } } ] , { collation : { locale : "fr" , strength : 1 } } // Ignored in the $regexFind ) Both operations return the following: { "_id" : 1 , "category" : "café" , "resultObject" : null } { "_id" : 2 , "category" : "cafe" , "resultObject" : { "match" : "cafe" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "category" : "cafE" , "resultObject" : null } To perform a case-insensitive regex pattern matching, use the i Option instead. See i Option for an example. captures Output Behavior If your regex pattern contains capture groups
and the pattern finds a match in the input , the captures array in the results corresponds to the groups captured by
the matching string. Capture groups are specified with unescaped
parentheses () in the regex pattern. The
length of the captures array equals the number of capture groups in
the pattern and the order of the array matches the order in which the
capture groups appear. Create a sample collection named contacts with the following
documents: db. contacts . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "fname" : "Carol" , "lname" : "Smith" , "phone" : "718-555-0113" } , { "_id" : 2 , "fname" : "Daryl" , "lname" : "Doe" , "phone" : "212-555-8832" } , { "_id" : 3 , "fname" : "Polly" , "lname" : "Andrews" , "phone" : "208-555-1932" } , { "_id" : 4 , "fname" : "Colleen" , "lname" : "Duncan" , "phone" : "775-555-0187" } , { "_id" : 5 , "fname" : "Luna" , "lname" : "Clarke" , "phone" : "917-555-4414" } ]) The following pipeline applies the regex pattern /(C(ar)*)ol/ to the fname field: db. contacts . aggregate ( [ { $project : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$fname" , regex : /(C(ar)*)ol/ } } } } ]) The regex pattern finds a match with fname values Carol and Colleen : { "_id" : 1 , "returnObject" : { "match" : "Carol" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ "Car" , "ar" ] } } { "_id" : 2 , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 3 , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 4 , "returnObject" : { "match" : "Col" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ "C" , null ] } } { "_id" : 5 , "returnObject" : null } The pattern contains the capture group (C(ar)*) which contains the
nested group (ar) . The elements in the captures array correspond
to the two capture groups. If a matching document is not captured by a
group (e.g. Colleen and the group (ar) ), $regexFind replaces the group with a null placeholder. As shown in the previous example, the captures array contains an
element for each capture group (using null for non-captures).
Consider the following example which searches for phone numbers with
New York City area codes by applying a logical or of capture
groups to the phone field. Each group represents a New York City
area code: db. contacts . aggregate ( [ { $project : { nycContacts : { $regexFind : { input : "$phone" , regex : /^(718).*|^(212).*|^(917).*/ } } } } ]) For documents which are matched by the regex pattern, the captures array includes the matching capture group
and replaces any non-capturing groups with null : { "_id" : 1 , "nycContacts" : { "match" : "718-555-0113" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ "718" , null , null ] } } { "_id" : 2 , "nycContacts" : { "match" : "212-555-8832" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ null , "212" , null ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "nycContacts" : null } { "_id" : 4 , "nycContacts" : null } { "_id" : 5 , "nycContacts" : { "match" : "917-555-4414" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ null , null , "917" ] } } Examples $regexFind and Its Options To illustrate the behavior of the $regexFind operator as
discussed in this example, create a sample collection products with
the following documents: db. products . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , description : "Single LINE description." } , { _id : 2 , description : "First lines \n second line" } , { _id : 3 , description : "Many spaces before     line" } , { _id : 4 , description : "Multiple \n line descriptions" } , { _id : 5 , description : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" } , { _id : 6 , description : "métier work vocation" } ]) By default, $regexFind performs a case-sensitive match.
For example, the following aggregation performs a case- sensitive $regexFind on the description field. The regex
pattern /line/ does not specify any grouping: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/ } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 6 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 23 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 9 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returnObject" : null } The following regex pattern /lin(e|k)/ specifies a grouping (e|k) in the pattern: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$description" , regex : /lin(e|k)/ } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 6 , "captures" : [ "e" ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 23 , "captures" : [ "e" ] } } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 9 , "captures" : [ "e" ] } } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "link" , "idx" : 9 , "captures" : [ "k" ] } } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returnObject" : null } In the return option, the idx field is the code point index and not the byte
index. To illustrate, consider the following example that uses the
regex pattern /tier/ : db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$description" , regex : /tier/ } } } } ]) The operation returns the following where only the last record
matches the pattern and the returned idx is 2 (instead of 3
if using a byte index) { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "tier" , "idx" : 2 , "captures" : [ ] } } i Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To perform case- insensitive pattern matching, include the i option as part of the regex field or
in the options field: // Specify i as part of the regex field { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: /line/i } } // Specify i in the options field { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: /line/, options: "i" } } { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: "line", options: "i" } } For example, the following aggregation performs a case- insensitive $regexFind on the description field. The regex
pattern /line/ does not specify any grouping: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$description" , regex : /line/i } } } } ]) The operation returns the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returnObject" : { "match" : "LINE" , "idx" : 7 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 6 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 23 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 9 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returnObject" : null } m Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To match the specified anchors (e.g. ^ , $ ) for each line of a
multiline string, include the m option as
part of the regex field or in the options field: // Specify m as part of the regex field { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: /line/m } } // Specify m in the options field { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: /line/, options: "m" } } { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: "line", options: "m" } } The following example includes both the i and the m options to
match lines starting with either the letter s or S for
multiline strings: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$description" , regex : /^s/im } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returnObject" : { "match" : "S" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "s" , "idx" : 12 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returnObject" : null } x Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To ignore all unescaped white space characters and comments (denoted by
the un-escaped hash # character and the next new-line character) in
the pattern, include the s option in the options field: // Specify x in the options field { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: /line/, options: "x" } } { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: "line", options: "x" } } The following example includes the x option to skip unescaped white
spaces and comments: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$description" , regex : /lin(e|k) # matches line or link/ , options : "x" } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 6 , "captures" : [ "e" ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 23 , "captures" : [ "e" ] } } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "line" , "idx" : 9 , "captures" : [ "e" ] } } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "link" , "idx" : 9 , "captures" : [ "k" ] } } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returnObject" : null } s Option Note You cannot specify options in both the regex and the options field. To allow the dot character (i.e. . ) in the pattern to match all
characters including the new line character, include the s option in the options field: // Specify s in the options field { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: /m.*line/, options: "s" } } { $regexFind: { input: "$description", regex: "m.*line", options: "s" } } The following example includes the s option to allow the dot
character (i.e. .) to match all characters including new line as well
as the i option to perform a case-insensitive match: db. products . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { returnObject : { $regexFind : { input : "$description" , regex : /m.*line/ , options : "si" } } } } ]) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "description" : "Single LINE description." , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 2 , "description" : "First lines \n second line" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 3 , "description" : "Many spaces before     line" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "Many spaces before     line" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 4 , "description" : "Multiple \n line descriptions" , "returnObject" : { "match" : "Multiple \n line" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 5 , "description" : "anchors, links and hyperlinks" , "returnObject" : null } { "_id" : 6 , "description" : "métier work vocation" , "returnObject" : null } Use $regexFind to Parse Email from String Create a sample collection feedback with the following documents: db. feedback . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , comment : "Hi, I'm just reading about MongoDB -- aunt.arc.tica@example.com" } , { "_id" : 2 , comment : "I wanted to concatenate a string" } , { "_id" : 3 , comment : "How do I convert a date to string? cam@mongodb.com" } , { "_id" : 4 , comment : "It's just me. I'm testing.  fred@MongoDB.com" } ]) The following aggregation uses the $regexFind to extract
the email from the comment field (case insensitive). db. feedback . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { "email" : { $regexFind : { input : "$comment" , regex : / [a-z0-9_.+-] +@ [a-z0-9_.+-] + \. [a-z0-9_.+-] +/i } } } } , { $set : { email : "$email.match" } } ] ) First Stage The stage uses the $addFields stage to add a new field email to the document. The new field contains the result of
performing the $regexFind on the comment field: { "_id" : 1 , "comment" : "Hi, I'm just reading about MongoDB -- aunt.arc.tica@example.com" , "email" : { "match" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" , "idx" : 38 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 2 , "comment" : "I wanted to concatenate a string" , "email" : null } { "_id" : 3 , "comment" : "I can't find how to convert a date to string. cam@mongodb.com" , "email" : { "match" : "cam@mongodb.com" , "idx" : 46 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 4 , "comment" : "It's just me. I'm testing.  fred@MongoDB.com" , "email" : { "match" : "fred@MongoDB.com" , "idx" : 28 , "captures" : [ ] } } Second Stage The stage use the $set stage to reset the email to
the current "$email.match" value. If the current value of email is null, the new value of email is set to null. { "_id" : 1 , "comment" : "Hi, I'm just reading about MongoDB -- aunt.arc.tica@example.com" , "email" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" } { "_id" : 2 , "comment" : "I wanted to concatenate a string" } { "_id" : 3 , "comment" : "I can't find how to convert a date to string. cam@mongodb.com" , "email" : "cam@mongodb.com" } { "_id" : 4 , "comment" : "It's just me. I'm testing.  fred@MongoDB.com" , "email" : "fred@MongoDB.com" } Apply $regexFind to String Elements of an Array Create a sample collection contacts with the following documents: db. contacts . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , name : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , details : [ "+672-19-9999" , "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" ] } , { "_id" : 2 , name : "Belle Gium" , details : [ "+32-2-111-11-11" , "belle.gium@example.com" ] } , { "_id" : 3 , name : "Cam Bo Dia" , details : [ "+855-012-000-0000" , "cam.bo.dia@example.com" ] } , { "_id" : 4 , name : "Fred" , details : [ "+1-111-222-3333" ] } ]) The following aggregation uses the $regexFind to convert
the details array into an embedded document with an email and phone fields: db. contacts . aggregate ( [ { $unwind : "$details" } , { $addFields : { "regexemail" : { $regexFind : { input : "$details" , regex : /^ [a-z0-9_.+-] +@ [a-z0-9_.+-] + \. [a-z0-9_.+-] +$/ , options : "i" } } , "regexphone" : { $regexFind : { input : "$details" , regex : /^ [+] {0,1} [0-9] * \- ? [0-9_ \- ] +$/ } } } } , { $project : { _id : 1 , name : 1 , details : { email : "$regexemail.match" , phone : "$regexphone.match" } } } , { $group : { _id : "$_id" , name : { $first : "$name" } , details : { $mergeObjects : "$details" } } } , { $sort : { _id : 1 } } ]) First Stage The stage $unwinds the array into separate
documents: { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : "+672-19-9999" } { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : "+32-2-111-11-11" } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : "belle.gium@example.com" } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : "+855-012-000-0000" } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : "cam.bo.dia@example.com" } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "Fred" , "details" : "+1-111-222-3333" } Second Stage The stage uses the $addFields stage to add new fields to
the document that contains the result of the $regexFind for phone number and email: { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : "+672-19-9999" , "regexemail" : null , "regexphone" : { "match" : "+672-19-9999" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" , "regexemail" : { "match" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } , "regexphone" : null } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : "+32-2-111-11-11" , "regexemail" : null , "regexphone" : { "match" : "+32-2-111-11-11" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : "belle.gium@example.com" , "regexemail" : { "match" : "belle.gium@example.com" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } , "regexphone" : null } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : "+855-012-000-0000" , "regexemail" : null , "regexphone" : { "match" : "+855-012-000-0000" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : "cam.bo.dia@example.com" , "regexemail" : { "match" : "cam.bo.dia@example.com" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } , "regexphone" : null } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "Fred" , "details" : "+1-111-222-3333" , "regexemail" : null , "regexphone" : { "match" : "+1-111-222-3333" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ ] } } Third Stage The stage use the $project stage to output documents with the _id field, the name field and
the details field. The details field is set to a
document with email and phone fields, whose values are determined from the regexemail and regexphone fields, respectively. { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : { "phone" : "+672-19-9999" } } { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : { "email" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" } } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : { "phone" : "+32-2-111-11-11" } } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : { "email" : "belle.gium@example.com" } } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : { "phone" : "+855-012-000-0000" } } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : { "email" : "cam.bo.dia@example.com" } } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "Fred" , "details" : { "phone" : "+1-111-222-3333" } } Fourth Stage The stage uses the $group stage to groups the input documents by
their _id value. The stage uses the $mergeObjects expression to merge the details documents. { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : { "phone" : "+855-012-000-0000" , "email" : "cam.bo.dia@example.com" } } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "Fred" , "details" : { "phone" : "+1-111-222-3333" } } { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : { "phone" : "+672-19-9999" , "email" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" } } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : { "phone" : "+32-2-111-11-11" , "email" : "belle.gium@example.com" } } Fifth Stage The stage uses the $sort stage to sort the documents by the _id field. { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "details" : { "phone" : "+672-19-9999" , "email" : "aunt.arc.tica@example.com" } } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "details" : { "phone" : "+32-2-111-11-11" , "email" : "belle.gium@example.com" } } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "details" : { "phone" : "+855-012-000-0000" , "email" : "cam.bo.dia@example.com" } } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "Fred" , "details" : { "phone" : "+1-111-222-3333" } } Use Captured Groupings to Parse User Name Create a sample collection employees with the following documents: db. employees . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , name : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "email" : "aunt.tica@example.com" } , { "_id" : 2 , name : "Belle Gium" , "email" : "belle.gium@example.com" } , { "_id" : 3 , name : "Cam Bo Dia" , "email" : "cam.dia@example.com" } , { "_id" : 4 , name : "Fred" } ]) The employee email has the format <firstname>.<lastname>@example.com . Using the captured field
returned in the $regexFind results, you can parse out
user names for employees. db. employees . aggregate ( [ { $addFields : { "username" : { $regexFind : { input : "$email" , regex : /^( [a-z0-9_.+-] +)@ [a-z0-9_.+-] + \. [a-z0-9_.+-] +$/ , options : "i" } } , } } , { $set : { username : { $arrayElemAt : [ "$username.captures" , 0 ] } } } ] ) First Stage The stage uses the $addFields stage to add a new field username to the document. The new field contains the result of
performing the $regexFind on the email field: { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "email" : "aunt.tica@example.com" , "username" : { "match" : "aunt.tica@example.com" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ "aunt.tica" ] } } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "email" : "belle.gium@example.com" , "username" : { "match" : "belle.gium@example.com" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ "belle.gium" ] } } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "email" : "cam.dia@example.com" , "username" : { "match" : "cam.dia@example.com" , "idx" : 0 , "captures" : [ "cam.dia" ] } } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "Fred" , "username" : null } Second Stage The stage use the $set stage to reset the username to
the zero-th element of the "$username.captures" array. If the current value of username is null, the new value of username is set to null. { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "Aunt Arc Tikka" , "email" : "aunt.tica@example.com" , "username" : "aunt.tica" } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Belle Gium" , "email" : "belle.gium@example.com" , "username" : "belle.gium" } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "Cam Bo Dia" , "email" : "cam.dia@example.com" , "username" : "cam.dia" } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "Fred" , "username" : null } Tip See also: For more information on the behavior of the captures array and
additional examples, see captures Output Behavior . Back $reduce Next $regexFindAll
