# $lookup (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Stages $lookup (aggregation) On this page Definition Compatibility Syntax Equality Match with a Single Join Condition Join Conditions and Subqueries on a Joined Collection Correlated Subqueries Using Concise Syntax Behavior Views and Collation Restrictions Atlas Search Support Sharded Collections Slot-Based Query Execution Engine Performance Considerations Examples Perform a Single Equality Join with $lookup Use $lookup with an Array Use $lookup with $mergeObjects Use Multiple Join Conditions and a Correlated Subquery Perform an Uncorrelated Subquery with $lookup Perform a Concise Correlated Subquery with $lookup Namespaces in Subpipelines Definition $lookup Changed in version 8.0 . Performs a left outer join to a collection in the same database to
filter in documents from the "joined" collection for processing. The $lookup stage adds a new array field to each input
document. The new array field contains the matching documents from
the "joined" collection. The $lookup stage passes these
reshaped documents to the next stage. Starting in MongoDB 5.1, you can use $lookup with sharded
collections. To combine elements from two different collections, use the $unionWith pipeline stage. Compatibility You can use $lookup for deployments hosted in the following
environments: MongoDB Atlas : The fully
managed service for MongoDB deployments in the cloud MongoDB Enterprise : The
subscription-based, self-managed version of MongoDB MongoDB Community : The
source-available, free-to-use, and self-managed version of MongoDB Syntax The $lookup stage has the syntax variations shown in the
following sections. Equality Match with a Single Join Condition To perform an equality match between a field from the input documents
with a field from the documents of the "joined" collection, the $lookup stage has this syntax: { $lookup: { from: <collection to join>, localField: <field from the input documents>, foreignField: <field from the documents of the "from" collection>, as: <output array field> } } The $lookup takes a document with these fields: Field Description from Specifies the collection in the same database to perform the
join with. from is optional, you can use a $documents stage in a $lookup stage instead. For an example, see Use a $documents Stage in a $lookup Stage . Starting in MongoDB 5.1, the collection specified in the from parameter can be sharded. localField Specifies the field from the documents input to the $lookup stage. $lookup performs an
equality match on the localField to the foreignField from the documents of the from collection. If an input document does not contain the localField , the $lookup treats the
field as having a value of null for matching purposes. foreignField Specifies the field from the documents in the from collection. $lookup performs an equality match on
the foreignField to the localField from the input
documents. If a document in the from collection does not
contain the foreignField , the $lookup treats
the value as null for matching purposes. as Specifies the name of the new array field to add to the input
documents. The new array field contains the matching
documents from the from collection. If the specified name
already exists in the input document, the existing field is overwritten . The operation corresponds to this pseudo-SQL statement: SELECT * , ( SELECT ARRAY_AGG ( * ) FROM < collection to join > WHERE < foreignField > = < collection.localField > ) AS < output array field > FROM collection; Note The SQL statements on this page are included for comparison to the
MongoDB aggregation pipeline syntax. The SQL statements aren't
runnable. For MongoDB examples, see these pages: Perform a Single Equality Join with $lookup Use $lookup with an Array Use $lookup with $mergeObjects Join Conditions and Subqueries on a Joined Collection MongoDB supports: Executing a pipeline on a joined collection. Multiple join conditions. Correlated and uncorrelated subqueries. In MongoDB, a correlated subquery is a pipeline in a $lookup stage that references
document fields from a joined collection. An uncorrelated subquery does
not reference joined fields. Note Starting in MongoDB 5.0, for an uncorrelated subquery in a $lookup pipeline stage containing a $sample stage, the $sampleRate operator, or the $rand operator, the subquery is always run again if
repeated. Previously, depending on the subquery output size, either the
subquery output was cached or the subquery was run again. MongoDB correlated subqueries are comparable to SQL correlated
subqueries, where the inner query references outer query values. An
SQL uncorrelated subquery does not reference outer query values. MongoDB 5.0 also supports concise correlated subqueries . To perform correlated and uncorrelated subqueries with two collections,
and perform other join conditions besides a single equality match, use
this $lookup syntax: { $lookup : { from : <joined collection>, let: { <var_1>: <expression>, …, <var_n>: <expression> }, pipeline: [ <pipeline to run on joined collection> ], as: <output array field> } } The $lookup stage accepts a document with these fields: Field Description from Specifies the collection in the same database to perform the
join operation. from is optional, you can use a $documents stage in a $lookup stage instead. For an example, see Use a $documents Stage in a $lookup Stage . Starting in MongoDB 5.1, the from collection can be sharded. let Optional. Specifies variables to use in the pipeline stages. Use the variable expressions to
access the fields from the joined collection's documents that are
input to the pipeline . To reference variables in pipeline stages, use the "$$<variable>" syntax. The let variables can be accessed by the
stages in the pipeline , including
additional $lookup stages nested in the pipeline . A $match stage requires the use of an $expr operator to access the variables. The $expr operator allows the use of aggregation expressions inside of the $match syntax. The $eq , $lt , $lte , $gt , and $gte comparison operators placed in
an $expr operator can use an index on the from collection
referenced in a $lookup stage. Limitations: Indexes can only be used for comparisons between fields and constants, so the let operand must resolve to a constant. For example, a comparison between $a and a constant
value can use an index, but a comparison between $a and $b cannot. Indexes are not used for comparisons where the let operand resolves to an
empty or missing value. Multikey indexes are not used. Other (non- $match ) stages in the pipeline do not
require an $expr operator to access the variables. pipeline Specifies the pipeline to run on the joined collection. The pipeline determines the resulting documents from the joined
collection. To return all documents, specify an empty pipeline [] . The pipeline cannot include the $out stage or the $merge stage. Starting in v6.0, the pipeline can contain the Atlas Search $search stage as the first stage inside the
pipeline. To learn more, see Atlas Search Support . The pipeline cannot directly access the joined document
fields. Instead, define variables for the joined document fields
using the let option and then reference
the variables in the pipeline stages. To reference variables in pipeline stages, use the "$$<variable>" syntax. The let variables can be accessed by the
stages in the pipeline , including
additional $lookup stages nested in the pipeline . A $match stage requires the use of an $expr operator to access the variables. The $expr operator allows the use of aggregation expressions inside of the $match syntax. The $eq , $lt , $lte , $gt , and $gte comparison operators placed in
an $expr operator can use an index on the from collection
referenced in a $lookup stage. Limitations: Indexes can only be used for comparisons between fields and constants, so the let operand must resolve to a constant. For example, a comparison between $a and a constant
value can use an index, but a comparison between $a and $b cannot. Indexes are not used for comparisons where the let operand resolves to an
empty or missing value. Multikey indexes are not used. Other (non- $match ) stages in the pipeline do not
require an $expr operator to access the variables. as Specifies the name of the new array field to add to the joined
documents. The new array field contains the matching documents
from the joined collection. If the specified name already exists
in the joined document, the existing field is overwritten. The operation corresponds to this pseudo-SQL statement: SELECT * , < output array field > FROM collection WHERE < output array field > IN ( SELECT < documents as determined from the pipeline > FROM < collection to join > WHERE < pipeline > ); See the following examples: Use Multiple Join Conditions and a Correlated Subquery Perform an Uncorrelated Subquery with $lookup Correlated Subqueries Using Concise Syntax New in version 5.0 . Starting in MongoDB 5.0, you can use a concise syntax for a correlated
subquery. Correlated subqueries reference document fields from a joined
"foreign" collection and the "local" collection on which the aggregate() method was run. The following new concise syntax removes the requirement for an equality
match on the foreign and local fields inside of an $expr operator: { $lookup : { from : <foreign collection>, localField: <field from local collection's documents>, foreignField: <field from foreign collection's documents>, let: { <var_1>: <expression>, …, <var_n>: <expression> }, pipeline: [ <pipeline to run> ], as: <output array field> } } The $lookup accepts a document with these fields: Field Description from Specifies the foreign collection in the same database to join
to the local collection. from is optional, you can use a $documents stage in a $lookup stage instead. For an example, see Use a $documents Stage in a $lookup Stage . Starting in MongoDB 5.1, the from collection can be sharded. localField Specifies the local documents' localField to perform an
equality match with the foreign documents' foreignField . If a local document does not contain a localField value, the $lookup uses a null value for the match. foreignField Specifies the foreign documents' foreignField to perform an
equality match with the local documents' localField . If a foreign document does not contain a foreignField value,
the $lookup uses a null value for the match. let Optional. Specifies the variables to use in the pipeline stages. Use the
variable expressions to access the document fields that are input
to the pipeline . To reference variables in pipeline stages, use the "$$<variable>" syntax. The let variables can be accessed by the
stages in the pipeline , including
additional $lookup stages nested in the pipeline . A $match stage requires the use of an $expr operator to access the variables. The $expr operator allows the use of aggregation expressions inside of the $match syntax. The $eq , $lt , $lte , $gt , and $gte comparison operators placed in
an $expr operator can use an index on the from collection
referenced in a $lookup stage. Limitations: Indexes can only be used for comparisons between fields and constants, so the let operand must resolve to a constant. For example, a comparison between $a and a constant
value can use an index, but a comparison between $a and $b cannot. Indexes are not used for comparisons where the let operand resolves to an
empty or missing value. Multikey indexes are not used. Other (non- $match ) stages in the pipeline do not
require an $expr operator to access the variables. pipeline Specifies the pipeline to run on the foreign collection. The pipeline returns documents from the foreign collection. To
return all documents, specify an empty pipeline [] . The pipeline cannot include the $out or $merge stages. Starting in v6.0, the pipeline can contain the Atlas Search $search stage as the first stage inside the
pipeline. To learn more, see Atlas Search Support . The pipeline cannot directly access the document fields.
Instead, define variables for the document fields using the let option and
then reference the variables in the pipeline stages. To reference variables in pipeline stages, use the "$$<variable>" syntax. The let variables can be accessed by the
stages in the pipeline , including
additional $lookup stages nested in the pipeline . A $match stage requires the use of an $expr operator to access the variables. The $expr operator allows the use of aggregation expressions inside of the $match syntax. The $eq , $lt , $lte , $gt , and $gte comparison operators placed in
an $expr operator can use an index on the from collection
referenced in a $lookup stage. Limitations: Indexes can only be used for comparisons between fields and constants, so the let operand must resolve to a constant. For example, a comparison between $a and a constant
value can use an index, but a comparison between $a and $b cannot. Indexes are not used for comparisons where the let operand resolves to an
empty or missing value. Multikey indexes are not used. Other (non- $match ) stages in the pipeline do not
require an $expr operator to access the variables. as Specifies the name of the new array field to add to the foreign
documents. The new array field contains the matching documents
from the foreign collection. If the specified name already exists
in the foreign document, the existing field is overwritten. The operation corresponds to this pseudo-SQL statement: SELECT * , < output array field > FROM localCollection WHERE < output array field > IN ( SELECT < documents as determined from the pipeline > FROM < foreignCollection > WHERE < foreignCollection.foreignField > = < localCollection.localField > AND < pipeline match condition > ); See this example: Perform a Concise Correlated Subquery with $lookup Behavior Views and Collation If performing an aggregation that involves multiple views, such as
with $lookup or $graphLookup , the views must
have the same collation . Restrictions You cannot include the $out or the $merge stage in the $lookup stage. That is, when specifying a pipeline for the joined collection , you cannot include either stage in
the pipeline field. { $lookup : { from : <collection to join>, let: { <var_1>: <expression>, …, <var_n>: <expression> }, pipeline: [ <pipeline to execute on the joined collection> ],  // Cannot include $out or $merge as: <output array field> } } Atlas Search Support Starting in MongoDB 6.0, you can specify the Atlas Search $search or $searchMeta stage
in the $lookup pipeline to search collections on the Atlas
cluster. The $search or the $searchMeta stage
must be the first stage inside the $lookup pipeline. For example, when you Join Conditions and Subqueries on a Joined Collection or run Correlated Subqueries Using Concise Syntax , you can specify $search or $searchMeta inside the pipeline as
shown below: $search $searchMeta [{ "$lookup": { "from": <joined collection>, localField: <field from the input documents>, foreignField: <field from the documents of the "from" collection>, "as": <output array field>, "pipeline": [{ "$search": { "<operator>": { <operator-specification> } }, ... }] } }] [{ "$lookup": { "from": <joined collection>, localField: <field from the input documents>, foreignField: <field from the documents of the "from" collection>, "as": <output array field>, "pipeline": [{ "$searchMeta": { "<collector>": { <collector-specification> } }, ... }] } }] To see an example of $lookup with $search ,
see the Atlas Search tutorial Run an Atlas Search $search Query
Using $lookup . Sharded Collections Starting in MongoDB 5.1, you can specify sharded collections in the from parameter of $lookup stages. Starting in MongoDB 8.0, you can use the $lookup stage within a
transaction while targeting a sharded collection. Slot-Based Query Execution Engine Starting in version 6.0, MongoDB can use the slot-based execution
query engine to execute $lookup stages
if all preceding stages in the pipeline can also be executed by the slot-based execution engine and none of the following conditions are true: The $lookup operation executes a pipeline on a joined collection.
To see an example of this kind of operation, see Join Conditions and Subqueries on a Joined Collection . The $lookup 's localField or foreignField specify numeric
components. For example: { localField: "restaurant.0.review" } . The from field of any $lookup in the pipeline specifies a view
or sharded collection. For more information, see $lookup Optimization . Performance Considerations $lookup performance depends on the type of operation performed.
Refer to the following table for performance considerations for
different $lookup operations. $lookup Operation Performance Considerations Equality Match with a Single Join $lookup operations that perform equality matches with a
single join perform better when the foreign collection contains
an index on the foreignField . IMPORTANT: If a supporting index on the foreignField does
not exist, a $lookup operation that performs an equality match with
a single join will likely have poor performance. Uncorrelated Subqueries $lookup operations that contain uncorrelated subqueries
perform better when the inner pipeline can reference an
index of the foreign collection. MongoDB only needs to run the $lookup subquery once before
caching the query because there is no relationship between the
source and foreign collections. The subquery is not based on
any value in the source collection. This behavior improves
performance for subsequent executions of the $lookup operation. Correlated Subqueries $lookup operations that contain correlated subqueries
perform better when the following conditions apply: The foreign collection contains an index on the foreignField . The foreign collection contains an index that references the
inner pipline. If your pipeline passes a large number of documents to the $lookup query, the following strategies may improve
performance: Reduce the number of documents that MongoDB passes to the $lookup query. For example, set a stricter filter
during the $match stage. Run the inner pipeline of the $lookup subquery as a
separate query and use $out to create a temporary
collection. Then, run an equality match with a single
join . Reconsider the data's schema to ensure it is optimal for the
use case. For general performance strategies, see Indexing Strategies and Query Optimization . Important Excessive use of $lookup within a query may slow down
performance. To avoid multiple $lookup stages, consider an embedded data model to optimize
query performance. Examples Perform a Single Equality Join with $lookup Create a collection orders with these documents: db. orders . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "almonds" , "price" : 12 , "quantity" : 2 } , { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "pecans" , "price" : 20 , "quantity" : 1 } , { "_id" : 3 } ] ) Create another collection inventory with these documents: db. inventory . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "sku" : "almonds" , "description" : "product 1" , "instock" : 120 } , { "_id" : 2 , "sku" : "bread" , "description" : "product 2" , "instock" : 80 } , { "_id" : 3 , "sku" : "cashews" , "description" : "product 3" , "instock" : 60 } , { "_id" : 4 , "sku" : "pecans" , "description" : "product 4" , "instock" : 70 } , { "_id" : 5 , "sku" : null , "description" : "Incomplete" } , { "_id" : 6 } ] ) The following aggregation operation on the orders collection
joins the documents from orders with the documents from the inventory collection using the fields item from the orders collection and the sku field from the inventory collection: db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "inventory" , localField : "item" , foreignField : "sku" , as : "inventory_docs" } } ] ) The operation returns these documents: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "almonds" , "price" : 12 , "quantity" : 2 , "inventory_docs" : [ { "_id" : 1 , "sku" : "almonds" , "description" : "product 1" , "instock" : 120 } ] } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "pecans" , "price" : 20 , "quantity" : 1 , "inventory_docs" : [ { "_id" : 4 , "sku" : "pecans" , "description" : "product 4" , "instock" : 70 } ] } { "_id" : 3 , "inventory_docs" : [ { "_id" : 5 , "sku" : null , "description" : "Incomplete" } , { "_id" : 6 } ] } The operation corresponds to this pseudo-SQL statement: SELECT * , inventory_docs FROM orders WHERE inventory_docs IN ( SELECT * FROM inventory WHERE sku = orders.item ); For more information, see Equality Match Performance Considerations . Use $lookup with an Array If the localField is an array, you can match the array elements
against a scalar foreignField without an $unwind stage. For example, create an example collection classes with these
documents: db. classes . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , title : "Reading is ..." , enrollmentlist : [ "giraffe2" , "pandabear" , "artie" ] , days : [ "M" , "W" , "F" ] } , { _id : 2 , title : "But Writing ..." , enrollmentlist : [ "giraffe1" , "artie" ] , days : [ "T" , "F" ] } ] ) Create another collection members with these documents: db. members . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , name : "artie" , joined : new Date ( "2016-05-01" ) , status : "A" } , { _id : 2 , name : "giraffe" , joined : new Date ( "2017-05-01" ) , status : "D" } , { _id : 3 , name : "giraffe1" , joined : new Date ( "2017-10-01" ) , status : "A" } , { _id : 4 , name : "panda" , joined : new Date ( "2018-10-11" ) , status : "A" } , { _id : 5 , name : "pandabear" , joined : new Date ( "2018-12-01" ) , status : "A" } , { _id : 6 , name : "giraffe2" , joined : new Date ( "2018-12-01" ) , status : "D" } ] ) The following aggregation operation joins documents in the classes collection with the members collection, matching on the enrollmentlist field to the name field: db. classes . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "members" , localField : "enrollmentlist" , foreignField : "name" , as : "enrollee_info" } } ] ) The operation returns the following: { "_id" : 1 , "title" : "Reading is ..." , "enrollmentlist" : [ "giraffe2" , "pandabear" , "artie" ] , "days" : [ "M" , "W" , "F" ] , "enrollee_info" : [ { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "artie" , "joined" : ISODate ( "2016-05-01T00:00:00Z" ) , "status" : "A" } , { "_id" : 5 , "name" : "pandabear" , "joined" : ISODate ( "2018-12-01T00:00:00Z" ) , "status" : "A" } , { "_id" : 6 , "name" : "giraffe2" , "joined" : ISODate ( "2018-12-01T00:00:00Z" ) , "status" : "D" } ] } { "_id" : 2 , "title" : "But Writing ..." , "enrollmentlist" : [ "giraffe1" , "artie" ] , "days" : [ "T" , "F" ] , "enrollee_info" : [ { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "artie" , "joined" : ISODate ( "2016-05-01T00:00:00Z" ) , "status" : "A" } , { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "giraffe1" , "joined" : ISODate ( "2017-10-01T00:00:00Z" ) , "status" : "A" } ] } Use $lookup with $mergeObjects The $mergeObjects operator combines multiple documents
into a single document. Create a collection orders with these documents: db. orders . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "almonds" , "price" : 12 , "quantity" : 2 } , { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "pecans" , "price" : 20 , "quantity" : 1 } ] ) Create another collection items with these documents: db. items . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "almonds" , description : "almond clusters" , "instock" : 120 } , { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "bread" , description : "raisin and nut bread" , "instock" : 80 } , { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "pecans" , description : "candied pecans" , "instock" : 60 } ] ) The following operation first uses the $lookup stage to
join the two collections by the item fields and then uses $mergeObjects in the $replaceRoot to merge
the joined documents from items and orders : db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "items" , localField : "item" , // field in the orders collection foreignField : "item" , // field in the items collection as : "fromItems" } } , { $replaceRoot : { newRoot : { $mergeObjects : [ { $arrayElemAt : [ "$fromItems" , 0 ] } , "$$ROOT" ] } } } , { $project : { fromItems : 0 } } ] ) The operation returns these documents: { _id : 1 , item : 'almonds' , description : 'almond clusters' , instock : 120 , price : 12 , quantity : 2 } , { _id : 2 , item : 'pecans' , description : 'candied pecans' , instock : 60 , price : 20 , quantity : 1 } Use Multiple Join Conditions and a Correlated Subquery Pipelines can execute on a joined collection and include multiple join
conditions. The $expr operator enables more complex join
conditions including conjunctions and non-equality matches. A join condition can reference a field in the local collection on which
the aggregate() method was run and reference a
field in the joined collection. This allows a correlated subquery
between the two collections. MongoDB 5.0 supports concise correlated subqueries . Create a collection orders with these documents: db. orders . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "almonds" , "price" : 12 , "ordered" : 2 } , { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "pecans" , "price" : 20 , "ordered" : 1 } , { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "cookies" , "price" : 10 , "ordered" : 60 } ] ) Create another collection warehouses with these documents: db. warehouses . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "stock_item" : "almonds" , warehouse : "A" , "instock" : 120 } , { "_id" : 2 , "stock_item" : "pecans" , warehouse : "A" , "instock" : 80 } , { "_id" : 3 , "stock_item" : "almonds" , warehouse : "B" , "instock" : 60 } , { "_id" : 4 , "stock_item" : "cookies" , warehouse : "B" , "instock" : 40 } , { "_id" : 5 , "stock_item" : "cookies" , warehouse : "A" , "instock" : 80 } ] ) The following example: Uses a correlated subquery with a join on the orders.item and warehouse.stock_item fields. Ensures the quantity of the item in stock can fulfill the
ordered quantity. db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "warehouses" , let : { order_item : "$item" , order_qty : "$ordered" } , pipeline : [ { $match : { $expr : { $and : [ { $eq : [ "$stock_item" , "$$order_item" ] } , { $gte : [ "$instock" , "$$order_qty" ] } ] } } } , { $project : { stock_item : 0 , _id : 0 } } ] , as : "stockdata" } } ] ) The operation returns these documents: { _id : 1 , item : 'almonds' , price : 12 , ordered : 2 , stockdata : [ { warehouse : 'A' , instock : 120 } , { warehouse : 'B' , instock : 60 } ] } , { _id : 2 , item : 'pecans' , price : 20 , ordered : 1 , stockdata : [ { warehouse : 'A' , instock : 80 } ] } , { _id : 3 , item : 'cookies' , price : 10 , ordered : 60 , stockdata : [ { warehouse : 'A' , instock : 80 } ] } The operation corresponds to this pseudo-SQL statement: SELECT * , stockdata FROM orders WHERE stockdata IN ( SELECT warehouse, instock FROM warehouses WHERE stock_item = orders.item AND instock >= orders.ordered ); The $eq , $lt , $lte , $gt , and $gte comparison operators placed in
an $expr operator can use an index on the from collection
referenced in a $lookup stage. Limitations: Indexes can only be used for comparisons between fields and constants, so the let operand must resolve to a constant. For example, a comparison between $a and a constant
value can use an index, but a comparison between $a and $b cannot. Indexes are not used for comparisons where the let operand resolves to an
empty or missing value. Multikey indexes are not used. For example, if the index { stock_item: 1, instock: 1 } exists on
the warehouses collection: The equality match on the warehouses.stock_item field uses the
index. The range part of the query on the warehouses.instock field
also uses the indexed field in the compound index. Tip See also: $expr Variables in Aggregation Expressions Perform an Uncorrelated Subquery with $lookup An aggregation pipeline $lookup stage can execute a pipeline
on the joined collection, which allows uncorrelated subqueries. An
uncorrelated subquery does not reference the joined document fields. Note Starting in MongoDB 5.0, for an uncorrelated subquery in a $lookup pipeline stage containing a $sample stage, the $sampleRate operator, or the $rand operator, the subquery is always run again if
repeated. Previously, depending on the subquery output size, either the
subquery output was cached or the subquery was run again. Create a collection absences with these documents: db. absences . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "student" : "Ann Aardvark" , sickdays : [ new Date ( "2018-05-01" ) , new Date ( "2018-08-23" ) ] } , { "_id" : 2 , "student" : "Zoe Zebra" , sickdays : [ new Date ( "2018-02-01" ) , new Date ( "2018-05-23" ) ] } , ] ) Create another collection holidays with these documents: db. holidays . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , year : 2018 , name : "New Years" , date : new Date ( "2018-01-01" ) } , { "_id" : 2 , year : 2018 , name : "Pi Day" , date : new Date ( "2018-03-14" ) } , { "_id" : 3 , year : 2018 , name : "Ice Cream Day" , date : new Date ( "2018-07-15" ) } , { "_id" : 4 , year : 2017 , name : "New Years" , date : new Date ( "2017-01-01" ) } , { "_id" : 5 , year : 2017 , name : "Ice Cream Day" , date : new Date ( "2017-07-16" ) } ] ) The following operation joins the absences collection with 2018
holiday information from the holidays collection: db. absences . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "holidays" , pipeline : [ { $match : { year : 2018 } } , { $project : { _id : 0 , date : { name : "$name" , date : "$date" } } } , { $replaceRoot : { newRoot : "$date" } } ] , as : "holidays" } } ] ) The operation returns the following: { _id : 1 , student : 'Ann Aardvark' , sickdays : [ ISODate ( "2018-05-01T00:00:00.000Z" ) , ISODate ( "2018-08-23T00:00:00.000Z" ) ] , holidays : [ { name : 'New Years' , date : ISODate ( "2018-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" ) } , { name : 'Pi Day' , date : ISODate ( "2018-03-14T00:00:00.000Z" ) } , { name : 'Ice Cream Day' , date : ISODate ( "2018-07-15T00:00:00.000Z" ) } ] } , { _id : 2 , student : 'Zoe Zebra' , sickdays : [ ISODate ( "2018-02-01T00:00:00.000Z" ) , ISODate ( "2018-05-23T00:00:00.000Z" ) ] , holidays : [ { name : 'New Years' , date : ISODate ( "2018-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" ) } , { name : 'Pi Day' , date : ISODate ( "2018-03-14T00:00:00.000Z" ) } , { name : 'Ice Cream Day' , date : ISODate ( "2018-07-15T00:00:00.000Z" ) } ] } The operation corresponds to this pseudo-SQL statement: SELECT * , holidays FROM absences WHERE holidays IN ( SELECT name, date FROM holidays WHERE year = 2018 ); For more information, see Uncorrelated Subquery Performance Considerations . Perform a Concise Correlated Subquery with $lookup New in version 5.0 . Starting in MongoDB 5.0, an aggregation pipeline $lookup stage supports a concise correlated subquery syntax that improves joins between
collections. The new concise syntax removes the requirement for an
equality match on the foreign and local fields inside of an $expr operator in a $match stage. Create a collection restaurants : db. restaurants . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , name : "American Steak House" , food : [ "filet" , "sirloin" ] , beverages : [ "beer" , "wine" ] } , { _id : 2 , name : "Honest John Pizza" , food : [ "cheese pizza" , "pepperoni pizza" ] , beverages : [ "soda" ] } ] ) Create another collection orders with food and optional drink
orders: db. orders . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , item : "filet" , restaurant_name : "American Steak House" } , { _id : 2 , item : "cheese pizza" , restaurant_name : "Honest John Pizza" , drink : "lemonade" } , { _id : 3 , item : "cheese pizza" , restaurant_name : "Honest John Pizza" , drink : "soda" } ] ) The following example: Joins the orders and restaurants collections by matching the orders.restaurant_name localField with the restaurants.name foreignField . The match is
performed before the pipeline is run. Performs an $in array match between the orders.drink and restaurants.beverages fields that are accessed using $$orders_drink and $beverages respectively. db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "restaurants" , localField : "restaurant_name" , foreignField : "name" , let : { orders_drink : "$drink" } , pipeline : [ { $match : { $expr : { $in : [ "$$orders_drink" , "$beverages" ] } } } ] , as : "matches" } } ] ) There is a match for the soda value in the orders.drink and restaurants.beverages fields. This output shows the matches array and contains all joined fields from the restaurants collection
for the match: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "filet" , "restaurant_name" : "American Steak House" , "matches" : [ ] } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "cheese pizza" , "restaurant_name" : "Honest John Pizza" , "drink" : "lemonade" , "matches" : [ ] } { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "cheese pizza" , "restaurant_name" : "Honest John Pizza" , "drink" : "soda" , "matches" : [ { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "Honest John Pizza" , "food" : [ "cheese pizza" , "pepperoni pizza" ] , "beverages" : [ "soda" ] } ] } Before the introduction of concise correlated subqueries, you had to use
an $eq equality match between the local field and the
joined field in the $expr operator in the pipeline $lookup stage as shown in Use Multiple Join Conditions and a Correlated Subquery . This example uses the older verbose syntax from MongoDB versions before
5.0 and returns the same results as the previous concise example: db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "restaurants" , let : { orders_restaurant_name : "$restaurant_name" , orders_drink : "$drink" } , pipeline : [ { $match : { $expr : { $and : [ { $eq : [ "$$orders_restaurant_name" , "$name" ] } , { $in : [ "$$orders_drink" , "$beverages" ] } ] } } } ] , as : "matches" } } ] ) The previous examples correspond to this pseudo-SQL statement: SELECT * , matches FROM orders WHERE matches IN ( SELECT * FROM restaurants WHERE restaurants.name = orders.restaurant_name AND restaurants.beverages = orders.drink ); For more information, see Correlated Subquery Performance Considerations . Namespaces in Subpipelines Starting in MongoDB 8.0, namespaces in subpipelines within $lookup and $unionWith are validated to ensure the correct use of from and coll fields: For $lookup , omit the from field if you use a subpipeline with
a stage which doesn't require a specified collection. For example, a $documents stage. Similarly, for $unionWith , omit the coll field. Unchanged behavior: For a $lookup that starts with a stage for a collection, for
example a $match or $collStats subpipeline,
you must include the from field and specify the collection. Similarly, for $unionWith , include the coll field and specify
the collection. The following scenario shows an example. Create a collection cakeFlavors : db. cakeFlavors . insertMany ( [ { _id : 1 , flavor : "chocolate" } , { _id : 2 , flavor : "strawberry" } , { _id : 3 , flavor : "cherry" } ] ) Starting in MongoDB 8.0, the following example returns an error because
it contains an invalid from field: db. cakeFlavors . aggregate ( [ { $lookup : { from : "cakeFlavors" , pipeline : [ { $documents : [ { } ] } ] , as : "test" } } ] ) In MongoDB versions before 8.0, the previous example runs. For an example with a valid from field, see Perform a Single Equality Join with $lookup . Back $listSessions Next $match
