# Set up Self-Managed X.509 Authentication - MongoDB Atlas


Docs Home / MongoDB Atlas / Query Federated Data / Get Started / Configure a Connection Set up Self-Managed X.509 Authentication On this page Prerequisites Configure a Project to use a Public Key Infrastructure Add a Database User using Self-Managed X.509 Authentication Self-managed X.509 certificates provide database users access to the
clusters in their project. Database users are separate from Atlas users. Database users have access to MongoDB databases, while Atlas users have access to the Atlas application itself. Prerequisites In order to use self-managed X.509 certificates, you must have a
Public Key Infrastructure to integrate with MongoDB Atlas . Configure a Project to use a Public Key Infrastructure 1 In Atlas , go to the Advanced page for your project. If it's not already displayed, select the
organization that contains your project from the Organizations menu in the navigation bar. If it's not already displayed, select your project
from the Projects menu in the navigation bar. In the sidebar, click Advanced under
the Security heading. The Advanced page displays. 2 Turn on Self-Managed X.509 Authentication. Toggle Self-Managed X.509 Authentication to ON . 3 Provide a PEM-encoded Certificate Authority. You can provide a Certificate Authority (CA) by: Clicking Upload and selecting a .pem file from
your filesystem. Copying the contents of a .pem file into the provided text
area. You can concatenate multiple CAs in the same .pem file or in the
text area. Users can authenticate with certificates generated by any
of the provided CAs. When you upload a CA, a project-level alert is
automatically created to send a notification 30 days before
the CA expires, repeating every 24 hours. You can view and
edit this alert from Atlas 's Alert Settings page. For
more information on configuring alerts, see Configure Alert Settings . 4 Click Save . To edit your CA once uploaded, click the Self-Managed X.509 Authentication Settings icon. Add a Database User using Self-Managed X.509 Authentication 1 In Atlas , go to the Database Access page for your project. If it's not already displayed, select the
organization that contains your project from the Organizations menu in the navigation bar. If it's not already displayed, select your project
from the Projects menu in the navigation bar. In the sidebar, click Database Access under
the Security heading. The Database Access page
displays. 2 Open the Add New Database User dialog box. If it isn't already displayed, click the Database Users tab. Click Add New Database User . 3 Select CERTIFICATE . 4 Enter user information. Field Description Common Name The user's Common Name (CN) protected by the TLS/SSL
certificate. For more information, see RFC 2253 . For example, if your common name is "Jane Doe", your organization is
"MongoDB", and your country is "US", insert the following
into the Common Name field: CN=Jane Doe,O=MongoDB,C=US User Privileges You can assign roles in one of the following ways: Select Atlas admin , which provides the user
with readWriteAnyDatabase as well as a number
of administrative privileges. Select Read and write to any database , which
provides the user with privileges to read and write to any
database. Select Only read any database which provides
the user with privileges to read any database. Select Select Custom Role to select a custom
role previously created in Atlas . You can create custom
roles for database users in cases where the built-in database user roles cannot describe the desired set of
privileges. For more information on custom roles, see Configure Custom Database Roles . Click Add Default Privileges . When you
click this option, you can select
individual roles and specify the database on which the
roles apply. Optionally, for the read and readWrite roles, you can also specify a collection. If you do not
specify a collection for read and readWrite , the
role applies to all non- system collections in the
database. The following table describes the Atlas specific privileges, the
database it applies to, and the privilege actions they represent. Atlas Specific Privilege Database Privilege Actions backup admin listDatabases listCollections listIndexes appendOplogNote getParameter serverStatus clusterMonitor admin connPoolStats getCmdLineOpts getDefaultRWConcern getLog getParameter getShardMap hostInfo inprog listDatabases listSessions listShards replSetGetConfig replSetGetStatus serverStatus shardingState top dbAdmin User configured bypassDocumentValidation changeStream collMod collStats compact convertToCapped createCollection createIndex createSearchIndex dbHash dbStats dropCollection dropDatabase dropIndex dropSearchIndex enableProfiler find killCursors listCollections listIndexes listSearchIndexes planCacheIndexFilter planCacheRead planCacheWrite reIndex renameCollectionSameDB storageDetails updateSearchIndex validate dbAdminAnyDatabase User configured except local and config dbAdminAnyDatabase enableSharding enableSharding read User configured changeStream collStats dbHash dbStats find killCursors listIndexes listCollections listSearchIndexes readWrite User configured changeStream collStats convertToCapped createCollection createSearchIndex dbHash dbStats dropCollection createIndex dropIndex dropSearchIndex find insert killCursors listIndexes listCollections listSearchIndexes remove renameCollectionSameDB update killOpSession User configured inprog killop killAnySession killCursors listSessions readWriteAnyDatabase User configured except local and config readWriteAnyDatabase changeStream collStats convertToCapped createCollection createSearchIndex dbHash dbStats dropCollection dropSearchIndex createIndex dropIndex find insert killCursors listIndexes listCollections listDatabases listSearchIndexes remove renameCollectionSameDB update readAnyDatabase User configured except local and config readAnyDatabase changeStream collStats dbHash dbStats find killCursors listIndexes listCollections listDatabases listSearchIndexes For information on the built-in Atlas privileges, see Built-in Roles . For more information on authorization, see Role-Based
Access Control and Built-in
Roles in the MongoDB manual. 5 Click Add User . Back Database Users Next AWS IAM
