# $substrCP (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $substrCP (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $substrCP Returns the substring of a string. The substring starts with the
character at the specified UTF-8 code point (CP) index (zero-based)
in the string for the number of code points specified. $substrCP has the following operator
expression syntax : { $substrCP : [ <string expression>, <code point index>, <code point count> ] } Field Type Description string expression string The string from which the substring will be extracted. string expression can be any valid expression as
long as it resolves to a string. For more information on
expressions, see Expression Operators . If the argument resolves to a value of null or refers to a field
that is missing, $substrCP returns an empty string. If the argument does not resolve to a string or null nor
refers to a missing field, $substrCP returns an error. code point index number Indicates the starting point of the substring. code point index can be any valid expression as long as
it resolves to a non-negative integer. code point count number Can be any valid expression as long as it resolves to a non-negative integer or number that can be
represented as an integer (such as 2.0). Example Results { $substrCP: [ "abcde", 1, 2 ] } "bc" { $substrCP: [ "Hello World!", 6, 5 ] } "World" { $substrCP: [ "cafétéria", 0, 5 ] } "cafét" { $substrCP: [ "cafétéria", 5, 4 ] } "éria" { $substrCP: [ "cafétéria", 7, 3 ] } "ia" { $substrCP: [ "cafétéria", 3, 1 ] } "é" Behavior The $substrCP operator uses the code points to extract
the substring. This behavior differs from the $substrBytes operator which extracts the substring
by the number of bytes, where each character uses between one and four
bytes. Example Single-Byte Character Set Consider an inventory collection with the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "ABC1" , quarter : "13Q1" , "description" : "product 1" } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "ABC2" , quarter : "13Q4" , "description" : "product 2" } { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "XYZ1" , quarter : "14Q2" , "description" : null } The following operation uses the $substrCP operator to
separate the quarter value into a yearSubstring and a quarterSubstring . The quarterSubstring field represents the
rest of the string from the specified byte index following the yearSubstring . It is calculated by subtracting the byte index from the length of the string using $strLenCP . db. inventory . aggregate ( [ { $project : { item : 1 , yearSubstring : { $substrCP : [ "$quarter" , 0 , 2 ] } , quarterSubtring : { $substrCP : [ "$quarter" , 2 , { $subtract : [ { $strLenCP : "$quarter" } , 2 ] } ] } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "ABC1" , "yearSubstring" : "13" , "quarterSubtring" : "Q1" } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "ABC2" , "yearSubstring" : "13" , "quarterSubtring" : "Q4" } { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "XYZ1" , "yearSubstring" : "14" , "quarterSubtring" : "Q2" } Single-Byte and Multibyte Character Set Create a food collection with the following documents: db. food . insertMany ( [ { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "apple" } , { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "banana" } , { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "éclair" } , { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "hamburger" } , { "_id" : 5 , "name" : "jalapeño" } , { "_id" : 6 , "name" : "pizza" } , { "_id" : 7 , "name" : "tacos" } , { "_id" : 8 , "name" : "寿司sushi" } ] ) The following example uses the $substrCP operator to create a three
byte menuCode from the name value: db. food . aggregate ( [ { $project : { "name" : 1 , "menuCode" : { $substrCP : [ "$name" , 0 , 3 ] } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: { "_id" : 1 , "name" : "apple" , "menuCode" : "app" } { "_id" : 2 , "name" : "banana" , "menuCode" : "ban" } { "_id" : 3 , "name" : "éclair" , "menuCode" : "écl" } { "_id" : 4 , "name" : "hamburger" , "menuCode" : "ham" } { "_id" : 5 , "name" : "jalapeño" , "menuCode" : "jal" } { "_id" : 6 , "name" : "pizza" , "menuCode" : "piz" } { "_id" : 7 , "name" : "tacos" , "menuCode" : "tac" } { "_id" : 8 , "name" : "寿司sushi" , "menuCode" : "寿司s" } Tip See also: $substrBytes Back $substrBytes Next $subtract
