# $isoWeekYear (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $isoWeekYear (aggregation) On this page Definition Behavior Example Definition $isoWeekYear Returns the year number in ISO 8601 format. The year starts
with the Monday of week 1 and ends with the Sunday of the
last week. The $isoWeekYear expression has the following operator expression syntax : { $isoWeekYear : < dateExpression > } The argument can be: An expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp , or an ObjectID . A document with this format: { date : < dateExpression > , timezone : < tzExpression > } Field Description date The date to which the operator is applied. <dateExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a Date , a Timestamp ,
or an ObjectID . timezone Optional. The timezone of the operation result. <tzExpression> must be a valid expression that resolves to a string formatted as either
an Olson Timezone Identifier or a UTC Offset .
If no timezone is provided, the result is in UTC. Format Examples Olson Timezone Identifier "America/New_York" "Europe/London" "GMT" UTC Offset +/-[hh]:[mm], e.g. "+04:45" +/-[hh][mm], e.g. "-0530" +/-[hh], e.g. "+03" Behavior Example Result { $isoWeekYear : new Date ( "2015-05-26" ) } 2015 { $isoWeekYear : { date : new Date ( "Jan 7, 2003" ) } } 2003 { $isoWeekYear : ISODate ( "2017-01-02T00:00:00Z" ) } 2017 { $isoWeekYear : { date : ISODate ( "2017-01-02T00:00:00Z" ) , timezone : "-0500" } } 2016 { $isoWeekYear : { date : new Date ( "April 08, 2024" ) , timezone : "America/Chicago" } } 2024 { $isoWeekYear : "March 28, 1976" } error { $isoWeekYear : Date ( "2016-01-01" ) } error { $isoWeekYear : "2009-04-09" } error Note $isoWeekYear cannot take a string as an argument. Example A collection called anniversaries contains the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "date" : ISODate ( "2016-01-01T00:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 2 , "date" : ISODate ( "2016-01-04T00:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 3 , "date" : ISODate ( "2015-01-01T00:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 4 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-04-21T00:00:00Z" ) } The following operation returns the year number in ISO 8601
format for each date field. db. anniversaries . aggregate ( [ { $project : { yearNumber : { $isoWeekYear : "$date" } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: { "_id" : 1 , "yearNumber" : 2015 } { "_id" : 2 , "yearNumber" : 2016 } { "_id" : 3 , "yearNumber" : 2015 } { "_id" : 4 , "yearNumber" : 2014 } Tip See also: $isoDayOfWeek (aggregation) $isoWeek (aggregation) Back $isoWeek Next $last
