# On-Demand Materialized Views - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Introduction / Databases & Collections On-Demand Materialized Views On this page Comparison with Standard Views Create a Materialized View in the MongoDB Atlas UI Example Additional Information Note Disambiguation This page discusses on-demand materialized views. For discussion of
standard views, see Views . To understand the differences between the view types, see Comparison with Standard Views . An on-demand materialized view is a pre-computed aggregation pipeline
result that is stored on and read from disk. On-demand materialized
views are typically the results of a $merge or $out stage. Comparison with Standard Views MongoDB provides two different view types: standard views and on-demand materialized views . Both view types return the results
from an aggregation pipeline. Standard views are computed when you read the view, and are not stored
to disk. On-demand materialized views are stored on and read from disk. They
use a $merge or $out stage to update the saved
data. Note When using $merge , you can use change streams to watch for changes on the materialized view.
When using $out , you can't watch for changes on the
materialized view. Indexes Standard views use the indexes of the underlying collection. As a
result, you cannot create, drop or re-build indexes on a standard view
directly, nor get a list of indexes on the view. You can create indexes directly on on-demand materialized views because
they are stored on disk. Performance On-demand materialized views provide better read performance than
standard views because they are read from disk instead of computed as
part of the query. This performance benefit increases based on the
complexity of the pipeline and size of the data being aggregated. Create a Materialized View in the MongoDB Atlas UI The example in this section uses the sample movies dataset . To learn how to load the sample dataset
into your MongoDB Atlas deployment, see Load Sample Data . To create a materialized view in the MongoDB Atlas UI, follow these
steps: 1 In the MongoDB Atlas UI, go to the Clusters page for your project. If it's not already displayed, select the organization that
contains your desired project from the Organizations menu in the
navigation bar. If it's not already displayed, select your project
from the Projects menu in the navigation bar. If it's not already displayed, click Clusters in the
sidebar. The Clusters page displays. 2 Navigate to the collection For the cluster that contains the sample data,
click Browse Collections . In the left navigation pane, select the sample_training database. Select the grades collection. 3 Click the Aggregation tab 4 Click Add Stage 5 Select an aggregation stage from the Select drop-down menu The aggregation stage transforms the data that you want to save as
a view. To learn more about available aggregation stages, see Aggregation Stages . For this example, add a new field with the $set stage: Select $set from the Select drop-down
menu. Add the following syntax to the aggregation pipeline
editor to create an average score across all score values in the scores array within the grades collection: { averageScore: { $avg: "$scores.score" } } MongoDB Atlas adds the averageScore value to each document. 6 Click Add Stage 7 Add the $out stage Select the $out stage from the Select drop-down menu. Add the following syntax to the aggregation pipeline
to write the results of the pipeline to the myView collection in the sample_training database: 'myView' Click Save Documents . The $out stage writes the results of the
aggregation pipeline to the specified collection, which creates
the view. To learn more, see $out . Refresh the list of collections to see the myView collection. To learn how to query the myView collection in the MongoDB Atlas
UI, see View, Filter, and Sort Documents in the
MongoDB Atlas documentation. Example Assume near the end of January 2019, the collection bakesales contains the sales information by items: db. bakesales . insertMany ( [ { date : new ISODate ( "2018-12-01" ) , item : "Cake - Chocolate" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "60" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2018-12-02" ) , item : "Cake - Peanut Butter" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "90" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2018-12-02" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 10 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "200" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2018-12-04" ) , item : "Cookies - Chocolate Chip" , quantity : 20 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "80" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2018-12-04" ) , item : "Cake - Peanut Butter" , quantity : 1 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "16" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2018-12-05" ) , item : "Pie - Key Lime" , quantity : 3 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "60" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-25" ) , item : "Cake - Chocolate" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "60" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-25" ) , item : "Cake - Peanut Butter" , quantity : 1 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "16" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-26" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "100" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-26" ) , item : "Cookies - Chocolate Chip" , quantity : 12 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "48" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-26" ) , item : "Cake - Carrot" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "36" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-26" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "100" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-27" ) , item : "Pie - Chocolate Cream" , quantity : 1 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "20" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-27" ) , item : "Cake - Peanut Butter" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "80" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-27" ) , item : "Tarts - Apple" , quantity : 3 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "12" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-27" ) , item : "Cookies - Chocolate Chip" , quantity : 12 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "48" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-27" ) , item : "Cake - Carrot" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "36" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-27" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "100" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-28" ) , item : "Cookies - Chocolate Chip" , quantity : 20 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "80" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-28" ) , item : "Pie - Key Lime" , quantity : 3 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "60" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-28" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "100" ) } , ] ) ; 1. Define the On-Demand Materialized View The following updateMonthlySales function defines a monthlybakesales materialized view that contains the cumulative
monthly sales information. In the example, the function takes a date
parameter to only update monthly sales information starting from a
particular date. updateMonthlySales = function ( startDate ) { db. bakesales . aggregate ( [ { $match : { date : { $gte : startDate } } } , { $group : { _id : { $dateToString : { format : "%Y-%m" , date : "$date" } } , sales_quantity : { $sum : "$quantity" } , sales_amount : { $sum : "$amount" } } } , { $merge : { into : "monthlybakesales" , whenMatched : "replace" } } ] ) ; } ; The $match stage filters the data to process only those
sales greater than or equal to the startDate . The $group stage groups the sales information by the
year-month. The documents output by this stage have the form: { "_id" : "<YYYY-mm>" , "sales_quantity" : < num > , "sales_amount" : < NumberDecimal > } The $merge stage writes the output to the monthlybakesales collection. Based on the _id field (the default for
unsharded output collections), the stage checks if the document in
the aggregation results matches an
existing document in the collection: When there is a match (i.e. a document
with the same year-month already exists in the collection), the
stage replaces the existing document with the document from the
aggregation results. When there is not a match , the stage
inserts the document from the aggregation results into the
collection (the default behavior when not matched). 2. Perform Initial Run For the initial run, you can pass in a date of new
ISODate("1970-01-01") : updateMonthlySales ( new ISODate ( "1970-01-01" )) ; After the initial run, the monthlybakesales contains the following
documents; i.e. db.monthlybakesales.find().sort( { _id: 1 } ) returns the following: { "_id" : "2018-12" , "sales_quantity" : 41 , "sales_amount" : NumberDecimal ( "506" ) } { "_id" : "2019-01" , "sales_quantity" : 86 , "sales_amount" : NumberDecimal ( "896" ) } 3. Refresh Materialized View Assume that by the first week in February 2019, the bakesales collection is updated with newer sales information; specifically,
additional January and February sales. db. bakesales . insertMany ( [ { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-28" ) , item : "Cake - Chocolate" , quantity : 3 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "90" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-28" ) , item : "Cake - Peanut Butter" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "32" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-30" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 1 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "20" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-30" ) , item : "Cookies - Chocolate Chip" , quantity : 6 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "24" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-31" ) , item : "Pie - Key Lime" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "40" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-01-31" ) , item : "Pie - Banana Cream" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "40" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-02-01" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "100" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-02-01" ) , item : "Tarts - Apple" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "8" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-02-02" ) , item : "Cake - Chocolate" , quantity : 2 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "60" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-02-02" ) , item : "Cake - Peanut Butter" , quantity : 1 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "16" ) } , { date : new ISODate ( "2019-02-03" ) , item : "Cake - Red Velvet" , quantity : 5 , amount : new NumberDecimal ( "100" ) } ] ) To refresh the monthlybakesales data for January and February, run
the function again to rerun the aggregation pipeline, starting with new ISODate("2019-01-01") . updateMonthlySales ( new ISODate ( "2019-01-01" )) ; The content of monthlybakesales has been updated to reflect the
most recent data in the bakesales collection; i.e. db.monthlybakesales.find().sort( { _id: 1 } ) returns the following: { "_id" : "2018-12" , "sales_quantity" : 41 , "sales_amount" : NumberDecimal ( "506" ) } { "_id" : "2019-01" , "sales_quantity" : 102 , "sales_amount" : NumberDecimal ( "1142" ) } { "_id" : "2019-02" , "sales_quantity" : 15 , "sales_amount" : NumberDecimal ( "284" ) } Additional Information The $merge stage: Can output to a collection in the same or different database. Creates a new collection if the output collection does not already
exist. Can incorporate results (insert new documents, merge documents,
replace documents, keep existing documents, fail the operation,
process documents with a custom update pipeline) into an existing
collection. Can output to a sharded collection. Input collection can
also be sharded. See $merge for: More information on $merge and available options Example: On-Demand Materialized View: Initial Creation Example: On-Demand Materialized View: Update/Replace Data Example: Only Insert New Data Back Supported Operations Next Capped Collections
