# $sum (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $sum (aggregation) On this page Definition Compatibility Syntax Behavior Examples Definition $sum Changed in version 5.0 . Calculates and returns the collective sum of numeric values. $sum ignores non-numeric values. $sum is available in these stages: $addFields $bucket $bucketAuto $group $match stage that includes an $expr expression $project $replaceRoot $replaceWith $set $setWindowFields (Available starting in MongoDB 5.0) Compatibility You can use $sum for deployments hosted in the following
environments: MongoDB Atlas : The fully
managed service for MongoDB deployments in the cloud MongoDB Enterprise : The
subscription-based, self-managed version of MongoDB MongoDB Community : The
source-available, free-to-use, and self-managed version of MongoDB Syntax When used as an accumulator , $sum has this syntax: { $sum: <expression> } When not used as an accumulator, $sum has this syntax: { $sum: [ <expression1>, <expression2> ... ]  } For more information on expressions, see Expression Operators . Behavior Result Data Type When input types are mixed, $sum promotes the smaller input
type to the larger of the two. A type is considered larger when it
represents a wider range of values. The order of numeric types from
smallest to largest is: integer → long → double → decimal The larger of the input types also determines the result type unless
the operation overflows and is beyond the range represented by that
larger data type. In cases of overflow, $sum promotes the
result according to the following order: If the larger input type is integer , the result type
is promoted to long . If the larger input type is long , the result type is
promoted to double . If the larger type is double or decimal , the overflow result is represented
as + or - infinity. There is no type promotion of the result. Non-Numeric or Non-Existent Fields If used on a field that contains both numeric and non-numeric values, $sum ignores the non-numeric values and returns the sum of the
numeric values. If used on a field that does not exist in any document in the collection, $sum returns 0 for that field. If all operands are non-numeric, non-arrays, or contain null values, $sum returns 0 . For details on how $sum handles arrays,
see Array Operand . Array Operand In the $group stage, if the expression resolves to an array, $sum treats the operand as a non-numeric value. In the other supported stages: With a single expression as its operand, if the expression resolves
to an array, $sum traverses into the array to operate on the
numeric elements of the array to return a single value. With a list of expressions as its operand, if any of the expressions
resolves to an array, $sum does not traverse into the
array but instead treats the array as a non-numeric value. For example, when not used in a $group stage: If the $sum operand is [ 2, 2 ] , $sum adds the array
elements and returns 4. If the $sum operand is [ 2, [ 3, 4 ] ] , $sum returns 2
because it treats the nested array [ 3, 4 ] as a non-numeric
value. Examples Use in $group Stage Consider a sales collection with the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 10 , "quantity" : 2 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-01-01T08:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "jkl" , "price" : 20 , "quantity" : 1 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-03T09:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "xyz" , "price" : 5 , "quantity" : 5 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-03T09:05:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 4 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 10 , "quantity" : 10 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-15T08:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 5 , "item" : "xyz" , "price" : 5 , "quantity" : 10 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-15T09:05:00Z" ) } Grouping the documents by the day and the year of the date field,
the following operation uses the $sum accumulator to compute the
total amount and the count for each group of documents. db. sales . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : { day : { $dayOfYear : "$date" } , year : { $year : "$date" } } , totalAmount : { $sum : { $multiply : [ "$price" , "$quantity" ] } } , count : { $sum : 1 } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: { "_id" : { "day" : 46 , "year" : 2014 } , "totalAmount" : 150 , "count" : 2 } { "_id" : { "day" : 34 , "year" : 2014 } , "totalAmount" : 45 , "count" : 2 } { "_id" : { "day" : 1 , "year" : 2014 } , "totalAmount" : 20 , "count" : 1 } Using $sum on a non-existent field returns a value of 0 .
The following operation attempts to $sum on qty : db. sales . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : { day : { $dayOfYear : "$date" } , year : { $year : "$date" } } , totalAmount : { $sum : "$qty" } , count : { $sum : 1 } } } ] ) The operation returns: { "_id" : { "day" : 46 , "year" : 2014 } , "totalAmount" : 0 , "count" : 2 } { "_id" : { "day" : 34 , "year" : 2014 } , "totalAmount" : 0 , "count" : 2 } { "_id" : { "day" : 1 , "year" : 2014 } , "totalAmount" : 0 , "count" : 1 } The $count aggregation accumulator can be used in place of { $sum : 1 } in the $group stage. Tip See also: $count (aggregation accumulator) Use in $project Stage A collection students contains the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "quizzes" : [ 10 , 6 , 7 ] , "labs" : [ 5 , 8 ] , "final" : 80 , "midterm" : 75 } { "_id" : 2 , "quizzes" : [ 9 , 10 ] , "labs" : [ 8 , 8 ] , "final" : 95 , "midterm" : 80 } { "_id" : 3 , "quizzes" : [ 4 , 5 , 5 ] , "labs" : [ 6 , 5 ] , "final" : 78 , "midterm" : 70 } The following example uses the $sum in the $project stage to calculate the total quiz scores, the
total lab scores, and the total of the final and the midterm: db. students . aggregate ( [ { $project : { quizTotal : { $sum : "$quizzes" } , labTotal : { $sum : "$labs" } , examTotal : { $sum : [ "$final" , "$midterm" ] } } } ]) The operation results in the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "quizTotal" : 23 , "labTotal" : 13 , "examTotal" : 155 } { "_id" : 2 , "quizTotal" : 19 , "labTotal" : 16 , "examTotal" : 175 } { "_id" : 3 , "quizTotal" : 14 , "labTotal" : 11 , "examTotal" : 148 } Use in $setWindowFields Stage New in version 5.0 . Create a cakeSales collection that contains cake sales in the states
of California ( CA ) and Washington ( WA ): db. cakeSales . insertMany ( [ { _id : 0 , type : "chocolate" , orderDate : new Date ( "2020-05-18T14:10:30Z" ) , state : "CA" , price : 13 , quantity : 120 } , { _id : 1 , type : "chocolate" , orderDate : new Date ( "2021-03-20T11:30:05Z" ) , state : "WA" , price : 14 , quantity : 140 } , { _id : 2 , type : "vanilla" , orderDate : new Date ( "2021-01-11T06:31:15Z" ) , state : "CA" , price : 12 , quantity : 145 } , { _id : 3 , type : "vanilla" , orderDate : new Date ( "2020-02-08T13:13:23Z" ) , state : "WA" , price : 13 , quantity : 104 } , { _id : 4 , type : "strawberry" , orderDate : new Date ( "2019-05-18T16:09:01Z" ) , state : "CA" , price : 41 , quantity : 162 } , { _id : 5 , type : "strawberry" , orderDate : new Date ( "2019-01-08T06:12:03Z" ) , state : "WA" , price : 43 , quantity : 134 } ] ) This example uses $sum in the $setWindowFields stage to output the sum of the quantity of cakes sold in each state : db. cakeSales . aggregate ( [ { $setWindowFields : { partitionBy : "$state" , sortBy : { orderDate : 1 } , output : { sumQuantityForState : { $sum : "$quantity" , window : { documents : [ "unbounded" , "current" ] } } } } } ] ) In the example: partitionBy: "$state" partitions the documents in the collection by state . There are partitions for CA and WA . sortBy: { orderDate: 1 } sorts the documents in each partition by orderDate in ascending order ( 1 ), so the earliest orderDate is first. output sets the sumQuantityForState field to the sum of the quantity values using $sum that is run in a documents window. The window contains documents between
an unbounded lower limit and the current document in the
output. This means $sum returns the sum of the quantity values for the documents between the beginning of the partition and
the current document. In this output, the sum of the quantity values for CA and WA is shown in the sumQuantityForState field: { "_id" : 4 , "type" : "strawberry" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2019-05-18T16:09:01Z" ) , "state" : "CA" , "price" : 41 , "quantity" : 162 , "sumQuantityForState" : 162 } { "_id" : 0 , "type" : "chocolate" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2020-05-18T14:10:30Z" ) , "state" : "CA" , "price" : 13 , "quantity" : 120 , "sumQuantityForState" : 282 } { "_id" : 2 , "type" : "vanilla" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2021-01-11T06:31:15Z" ) , "state" : "CA" , "price" : 12 , "quantity" : 145 , "sumQuantityForState" : 427 } { "_id" : 5 , "type" : "strawberry" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2019-01-08T06:12:03Z" ) , "state" : "WA" , "price" : 43 , "quantity" : 134 , "sumQuantityForState" : 134 } { "_id" : 3 , "type" : "vanilla" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2020-02-08T13:13:23Z" ) , "state" : "WA" , "price" : 13 , "quantity" : 104 , "sumQuantityForState" : 238 } { "_id" : 1 , "type" : "chocolate" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2021-03-20T11:30:05Z" ) , "state" : "WA" , "price" : 14 , "quantity" : 140 , "sumQuantityForState" : 378 } Back $subtract Next $switch
