# $max (aggregation) - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Reference / Operators $max (aggregation) On this page Definition Syntax Behavior Examples Definition Changed in version 5.0 . $max Returns the maximum value. $max compares both value and
type, using the specified BSON comparison order for values of different types. $max is available in these stages: $addFields $bucket $bucketAuto $group $match stage that includes an $expr expression $project $replaceRoot $replaceWith $set $setWindowFields (Available starting in MongoDB 5.0) Syntax When used in the $bucket , $bucketAuto , $group , and $setWindowFields stages, $max has this syntax: { $max: <expression> } When used in other supported stages, $max has one of two
syntaxes: $max has one specified expression as its operand: { $max: <expression> } $max has a list of specified expressions as its
operand: { $max: [ <expression1>, <expression2> ... ]  } For more information on expressions, see Expression Operators . Behavior Result Type $max compares input data following the BSON Comparison order to
determine the appropriate output type. When the input data contains
multiple data types, the $max output type is the highest in the comparison order. Null or Missing Values If some, but not all , documents for the $max operation have either a null value for the field or are
missing the field, the $max operator only considers the
non-null and the non-missing values for the field. If all documents for the $max operation have null value for the field or are missing the field, the $max operator returns null for the maximum value. Array Operand In the $group and $setWindowFields stages, if
the expression resolves to an array, $max does not traverse the
array and compares the array as a whole. In the other supported stages: With a single expression as its operand, if the expression resolves
to an array, $max traverses into the array to operate on the
numeric elements of the array to return a single value. With a list of expressions as its operand, if any of the expressions
resolves to an array, $max does not traverse into the
array but instead treats the array as a non-numeric value. Examples Use in $group Stage Consider a sales collection with the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 10 , "quantity" : 2 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-01-01T08:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 2 , "item" : "jkl" , "price" : 20 , "quantity" : 1 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-03T09:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 3 , "item" : "xyz" , "price" : 5 , "quantity" : 5 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-03T09:05:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 4 , "item" : "abc" , "price" : 10 , "quantity" : 10 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-15T08:00:00Z" ) } { "_id" : 5 , "item" : "xyz" , "price" : 5 , "quantity" : 10 , "date" : ISODate ( "2014-02-15T09:05:00Z" ) } Grouping the documents by the item field, the following operation
uses the $max accumulator to compute the maximum total amount and
maximum quantity for each group of documents. db. sales . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : "$item" , maxTotalAmount : { $max : { $multiply : [ "$price" , "$quantity" ] } } , maxQuantity : { $max : "$quantity" } } } ] ) The operation returns the following results: { "_id" : "xyz" , "maxTotalAmount" : 50 , "maxQuantity" : 10 } { "_id" : "jkl" , "maxTotalAmount" : 20 , "maxQuantity" : 1 } { "_id" : "abc" , "maxTotalAmount" : 100 , "maxQuantity" : 10 } Use in $project Stage A collection students contains the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "quizzes" : [ 10 , 6 , 7 ] , "labs" : [ 5 , 8 ] , "final" : 80 , "midterm" : 75 } { "_id" : 2 , "quizzes" : [ 9 , 10 ] , "labs" : [ 8 , 8 ] , "final" : 95 , "midterm" : 80 } { "_id" : 3 , "quizzes" : [ 4 , 5 , 5 ] , "labs" : [ 6 , 5 ] , "final" : 78 , "midterm" : 70 } The following example uses the $max in the $project stage to calculate the maximum quiz scores, the
maximum lab scores, and the maximum of the final and the midterm: db. students . aggregate ( [ { $project : { quizMax : { $max : "$quizzes" } , labMax : { $max : "$labs" } , examMax : { $max : [ "$final" , "$midterm" ] } } } ]) The operation results in the following documents: { "_id" : 1 , "quizMax" : 10 , "labMax" : 8 , "examMax" : 80 } { "_id" : 2 , "quizMax" : 10 , "labMax" : 8 , "examMax" : 95 } { "_id" : 3 , "quizMax" : 5 , "labMax" : 6 , "examMax" : 78 } Use in $setWindowFields Stage New in version 5.0 . Create a cakeSales collection that contains cake sales in the states
of California ( CA ) and Washington ( WA ): db. cakeSales . insertMany ( [ { _id : 0 , type : "chocolate" , orderDate : new Date ( "2020-05-18T14:10:30Z" ) , state : "CA" , price : 13 , quantity : 120 } , { _id : 1 , type : "chocolate" , orderDate : new Date ( "2021-03-20T11:30:05Z" ) , state : "WA" , price : 14 , quantity : 140 } , { _id : 2 , type : "vanilla" , orderDate : new Date ( "2021-01-11T06:31:15Z" ) , state : "CA" , price : 12 , quantity : 145 } , { _id : 3 , type : "vanilla" , orderDate : new Date ( "2020-02-08T13:13:23Z" ) , state : "WA" , price : 13 , quantity : 104 } , { _id : 4 , type : "strawberry" , orderDate : new Date ( "2019-05-18T16:09:01Z" ) , state : "CA" , price : 41 , quantity : 162 } , { _id : 5 , type : "strawberry" , orderDate : new Date ( "2019-01-08T06:12:03Z" ) , state : "WA" , price : 43 , quantity : 134 } ] ) This example uses $max in the $setWindowFields stage to output the maximum quantity of cake sales for each state : db. cakeSales . aggregate ( [ { $setWindowFields : { partitionBy : "$state" , sortBy : { orderDate : 1 } , output : { maximumQuantityForState : { $max : "$quantity" , window : { documents : [ "unbounded" , "current" ] } } } } } ] ) In the example: partitionBy: "$state" partitions the documents in the collection by state . There are partitions for CA and WA . sortBy: { orderDate: 1 } sorts the documents in each partition by orderDate in ascending order ( 1 ), so the earliest orderDate is first. output sets the maximumQuantityForState field to the maximum quantity value using $max that is run in a documents window. The window contains documents between
an unbounded lower limit and the current document in the
output. This means $max returns the maximum quantity for the documents between the beginning of the partition
and the current document. In this output, the maximum quantity for CA and WA is shown
in the maximumQuantityForState field: { "_id" : 4 , "type" : "strawberry" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2019-05-18T16:09:01Z" ) , "state" : "CA" , "price" : 41 , "quantity" : 162 , "maximumQuantityForState" : 162 } { "_id" : 0 , "type" : "chocolate" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2020-05-18T14:10:30Z" ) , "state" : "CA" , "price" : 13 , "quantity" : 120 , "maximumQuantityForState" : 162 } { "_id" : 2 , "type" : "vanilla" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2021-01-11T06:31:15Z" ) , "state" : "CA" , "price" : 12 , "quantity" : 145 , "maximumQuantityForState" : 162 } { "_id" : 5 , "type" : "strawberry" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2019-01-08T06:12:03Z" ) , "state" : "WA" , "price" : 43 , "quantity" : 134 , "maximumQuantityForState" : 134 } { "_id" : 3 , "type" : "vanilla" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2020-02-08T13:13:23Z" ) , "state" : "WA" , "price" : 13 , "quantity" : 104 , "maximumQuantityForState" : 134 } { "_id" : 1 , "type" : "chocolate" , "orderDate" : ISODate ( "2021-03-20T11:30:05Z" ) , "state" : "WA" , "price" : 14 , "quantity" : 140 , "maximumQuantityForState" : 140 } Back $map Next $maxN
