# Map-Reduce to Aggregation Pipeline - MongoDB Manual v8.0


Docs Home / MongoDB Manual / Aggregation Operations / Map-Reduce Map-Reduce to Aggregation Pipeline An aggregation pipeline provides
better performance and usability than a map-reduce operation. Map-reduce operations can be rewritten using aggregation pipeline
stages such as $group and $merge . For map-reduce operations that require custom functionality, MongoDB
provides the $accumulator and $function aggregation operators. Use these operators to
define custom aggregation expressions in JavaScript. Map-reduce expressions can be re-written as shown in the following
sections. Map-Reduce to Aggregation Pipeline Translation Table The table is only an approximate translation. For instance, the table
shows an approximate translation of mapFunction using the $project . However, the mapFunction logic may require additional stages,
such as if the logic includes iteration over an array: function ( ) { this . items . forEach ( function ( item ) { emit ( item. sku , 1 ) ; }) ; } Then, the aggregation pipeline includes an $unwind and a $project : { $unwind : "$items " } , { $project : { emits : { key : { "$items.sku" } , value : 1 } } } , The emits field in $project may be named something
else. For visual comparison, the field name emits was chosen. Map-Reduce Aggregation Pipeline db.collection.mapReduce( <mapFunction> , <reduceFunction> , { query: <queryFilter>, sort: <sortOrder>, limit: <number>, finalize: <finalizeFunction> , out: <collection> } ) db.collection.aggregate( [ { $match: <queryFilter> }, { $sort: <sortOrder> }, { $limit: <number> }, { $project: { emits: { k: <expression>, v: <expression> } } }, { $unwind: "$emits" }, { $group : { _id: "$emits.k"}, value: { $accumulator : { init: <initCode>, accumulate: <reduceFunction> , accumulateArgs: [ "$emit.v"], merge: <reduceFunction> , finalize: <finalizeFunction> , lang: "js" }} } }, { $out: <collection> } ] ) db.collection.mapReduce( <mapFunction> , <reduceFunction> , { query: <queryFilter>, sort: <sortOrder>, limit: <number>, finalize: <finalizeFunction> , out: { replace: <collection>, db:<db> } } ) db.collection.aggregate( [ { $match: <queryFilter> }, { $sort: <sortOrder> }, { $limit: <number> }, { $project: { emits: { k: <expression>, v: <expression> } } }, { $unwind: "$emits" }, { $group : { _id: "$emits.k"}, value: { $accumulator : { init: <initCode>, accumulate: <reduceFunction> , accumulateArgs: [ "$emit.v"], merge: <reduceFunction> , finalize: <finalizeFunction> , lang: "js" }} } }, { $out: { db: <db>, coll: <collection> } } ] ) db.collection.mapReduce( <mapFunction> , <reduceFunction> , { query: <queryFilter>, sort: <sortOrder>, limit: <number>, finalize: <finalizeFunction> , out: { merge: <collection>, db: <db> } } ) db.collection.aggregate( [ { $match: <queryFilter> }, { $sort: <sortOrder> }, { $limit: <number> }, { $project: { emits: { k: <expression>, v: <expression> } } }, { $unwind: "$emits" }, { $group : { _id: "$emits.k"}, value: { $accumulator : { init: <initCode>, accumulate: <reduceFunction> , accumulateArgs: [ "$emit.v"], merge: <reduceFunction> , finalize: <finalizeFunction> , lang: "js" }} } }, { $merge : { into: { db: <db>, coll: <collection> }, on: "_id" whenMatched: "replace", whenNotMatched: "insert" } }, ] ) db.collection.mapReduce( <mapFunction> , <reduceFunction> , { query: <queryFilter>, sort: <sortOrder>, limit: <number>, finalize: <finalizeFunction> , out: { reduce: <collection>, db: <db> } } ) db.collection.aggregate( [ { $match: <queryFilter> }, { $sort: <sortOrder> }, { $limit: <number> }, { $project: { emits: { k: <expression>, v: <expression> } } }, { $unwind: "$emits" }, { $group : { _id: "$emits.k"}, value: { $accumulator : { init: <initCode>, accumulate: <reduceFunction> , accumulateArgs: [ "$emit.v"], merge: <reduceFunction> , finalize: <finalizeFunction> , lang: "js" }} } }, { $merge : { into: { db: <db>, coll: <collection> }, on: "_id" whenMatched: [ { $project: { value: { $function: { body: <reduceFunction> , args: [ "$_id", [ "$value", "$$new.value" ] ], lang: "js" } } } } ] whenNotMatched: "insert" } }, ] ) db.collection.mapReduce( <mapFunction> , <reduceFunction> , { query: <queryFilter>, sort: <sortOrder>, limit: <number>, finalize: <finalizeFunction> , out: { inline: 1 } } ) db.collection.aggregate( [ { $match: <queryFilter> }, { $sort: <sortOrder> }, { $limit: <number> }, { $project: { emits: { k: <expression>, v: <expression> } } }, { $unwind: "$emits" }, { $group : { _id: "$emits.k"}, value: { $accumulator : { init: <initCode>, accumulate: <reduceFunction> , accumulateArgs: [ "$emit.v"], merge: <reduceFunction> , finalize: <finalizeFunction> , lang: "js" }} } } ] ) Examples Various map-reduce expressions can be rewritten using aggregation
pipeline operators, such as $group , $merge , and
others, without requiring custom functions. However, for illustrative
purposes, the following examples provide both alternatives. Example 1 The  following map-reduce operation on the orders collection groups
by the cust_id , and calculates the sum of the price for each cust_id : var mapFunction1 = function ( ) { emit ( this . cust_id , this . price ) ; } ; var reduceFunction1 = function ( keyCustId, valuesPrices ) { return Array . sum ( valuesPrices) ; } ; db. orders . mapReduce ( mapFunction1 , reduceFunction1 , { out : "map_reduce_example" } ) Alternative 1: (Recommended) You can rewrite the operation into
an aggregation pipeline without translating the map-reduce function
to equivalent pipeline stages: db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $group : { _id : "$cust_id" , value : { $sum : "$price" } } } , { $out : "agg_alternative_1" } ]) Alternative 2: (For illustrative purposes only) The
following aggregation pipeline provides a translation of the various
map-reduce functions, using $accumulator to define custom
functions: db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $project : { emit : { key : "$cust_id" , value : "$price" } } } , // equivalent to the map function { $group : { // equivalent to the reduce function _id : "$emit.key" , valuesPrices : { $accumulator : { init : function ( ) { return 0 ; } , initArgs : [ ] , accumulate : function ( state, value ) { return state + value ; } , accumulateArgs : [ "$emit.value" ] , merge : function ( state1, state2 ) { return state1 + state2 ; } , lang : "js" } } } } , { $out : "agg_alternative_2" } ] ) First, the $project stage outputs documents with an emit field. The emit field is a document with the fields: key that contains the cust_id value for the document value that contains the price value for the document { "_id" : 1 , "emit" : { "key" : "Ant O. Knee" , "value" : 25 } } { "_id" : 2 , "emit" : { "key" : "Ant O. Knee" , "value" : 70 } } { "_id" : 3 , "emit" : { "key" : "Busby Bee" , "value" : 50 } } { "_id" : 4 , "emit" : { "key" : "Busby Bee" , "value" : 25 } } { "_id" : 5 , "emit" : { "key" : "Busby Bee" , "value" : 50 } } { "_id" : 6 , "emit" : { "key" : "Cam Elot" , "value" : 35 } } { "_id" : 7 , "emit" : { "key" : "Cam Elot" , "value" : 25 } } { "_id" : 8 , "emit" : { "key" : "Don Quis" , "value" : 75 } } { "_id" : 9 , "emit" : { "key" : "Don Quis" , "value" : 55 } } { "_id" : 10 , "emit" : { "key" : "Don Quis" , "value" : 25 } } Then, the $group uses the $accumulator operator to add the emitted values: { "_id" : "Don Quis" , "valuesPrices" : 155 } { "_id" : "Cam Elot" , "valuesPrices" : 60 } { "_id" : "Ant O. Knee" , "valuesPrices" : 95 } { "_id" : "Busby Bee" , "valuesPrices" : 125 } Finally, the $out writes the output to the collection agg_alternative_2 . Alternatively, you could use $merge instead of $out . Example 2 The following map-reduce operation on the orders collection
groups by the item.sku field and calculates the number of
orders and the total quantity ordered for each sku. The operation
then calculates the average quantity per order for each sku value
and merges the results into the output collection. var mapFunction2 = function ( ) { for ( var idx = 0 ; idx < this . items . length ; idx + + ) { var key = this . items [ idx]. sku ; var value = { count : 1 , qty : this . items [ idx]. qty } ; emit ( key , value) ; } } ; var reduceFunction2 = function ( keySKU, countObjVals ) { reducedVal = { count : 0 , qty : 0 } ; for ( var idx = 0 ; idx < countObjVals. length ; idx + + ) { reducedVal. count + = countObjVals [ idx]. count ; reducedVal. qty + = countObjVals [ idx]. qty ; } return reducedVal ; } ; var finalizeFunction2 = function ( key, reducedVal ) { reducedVal. avg = reducedVal. qty / reducedVal. count ; return reducedVal ; } ; db. orders . mapReduce ( mapFunction2 , reduceFunction2 , { out : { merge : "map_reduce_example2" } , query : { ord_date : { $gte : new Date ( "2020-03-01" ) } } , finalize : finalizeFunction2 } ) ; Alternative 1: (Recommended) You can rewrite the operation into
an aggregation pipeline without translating the map-reduce function
to equivalent pipeline stages: db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $match : { ord_date : { $gte : new Date ( "2020-03-01" ) } } } , { $unwind : "$items" } , { $group : { _id : "$items.sku" , qty : { $sum : "$items.qty" } , orders_ids : { $addToSet : "$_id" } }  } , { $project : { value : { count : { $size : "$orders_ids" } , qty : "$qty" , avg : { $divide : [ "$qty" , { $size : "$orders_ids" } ] } } } } , { $merge : { into : "agg_alternative_3" , on : "_id" , whenMatched : "replace" , whenNotMatched : "insert" } } ] ) Alternative 2: (For illustrative purposes only) The following
aggregation pipeline provides a translation of the various
map-reduce functions, using $accumulator to define custom
functions: db. orders . aggregate ( [ { $match : { ord_date : { $gte : new Date ( "2020-03-01" ) } } } , { $unwind : "$items" } , { $project : { emit : { key : "$items.sku" , value : { count : { $literal : 1 } , qty : "$items.qty" } } } } , { $group : { _id : "$emit.key" , value : { $accumulator : { init : function ( ) { return { count : 0 , qty : 0 } ; } , initArgs : [ ] , accumulate : function ( state, value ) { state. count + = value. count ; state. qty + = value. qty ; return state ; } , accumulateArgs : [ "$emit.value" ] , merge : function ( state1, state2 ) { return { count : state1. count + state2. count , qty : state1. qty + state2. qty } ; } , finalize : function ( state ) { state. avg = state. qty / state. count ; return state ; } , lang : "js" } } } } , { $merge : { into : "agg_alternative_4" , on : "_id" , whenMatched : "replace" , whenNotMatched : "insert" } } ] ) The $match stage selects only those
documents with ord_date greater than or equal to new
Date("2020-03-01") . The $unwind stage breaks down the document by
the items array field to output a document for each array
element. For example: { "_id" : 1 , "cust_id" : "Ant O. Knee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-01T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 25 , "items" : { "sku" : "oranges" , "qty" : 5 , "price" : 2.5 } , "status" : "A" } { "_id" : 1 , "cust_id" : "Ant O. Knee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-01T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 25 , "items" : { "sku" : "apples" , "qty" : 5 , "price" : 2.5 } , "status" : "A" } { "_id" : 2 , "cust_id" : "Ant O. Knee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-08T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 70 , "items" : { "sku" : "oranges" , "qty" : 8 , "price" : 2.5 } , "status" : "A" } { "_id" : 2 , "cust_id" : "Ant O. Knee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-08T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 70 , "items" : { "sku" : "chocolates" , "qty" : 5 , "price" : 10 } , "status" : "A" } { "_id" : 3 , "cust_id" : "Busby Bee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-08T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 50 , "items" : { "sku" : "oranges" , "qty" : 10 , "price" : 2.5 } , "status" : "A" } { "_id" : 3 , "cust_id" : "Busby Bee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-08T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 50 , "items" : { "sku" : "pears" , "qty" : 10 , "price" : 2.5 } , "status" : "A" } { "_id" : 4 , "cust_id" : "Busby Bee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-18T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 25 , "items" : { "sku" : "oranges" , "qty" : 10 , "price" : 2.5 } , "status" : "A" } { "_id" : 5 , "cust_id" : "Busby Bee" , "ord_date" : ISODate ( "2020-03-19T00:00:00Z" ) , "price" : 50 , "items" : { "sku" : "chocolates" , "qty" : 5 , "price" : 10 } , "status" : "A" } ... The $project stage outputs documents with an emit field. The emit field is a document with the fields: key that contains the items.sku value value that contains a document with the qty value and a count value { "_id" : 1 , "emit" : { "key" : "oranges" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 5 } } } { "_id" : 1 , "emit" : { "key" : "apples" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 5 } } } { "_id" : 2 , "emit" : { "key" : "oranges" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 8 } } } { "_id" : 2 , "emit" : { "key" : "chocolates" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 5 } } } { "_id" : 3 , "emit" : { "key" : "oranges" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 10 } } } { "_id" : 3 , "emit" : { "key" : "pears" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 10 } } } { "_id" : 4 , "emit" : { "key" : "oranges" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 10 } } } { "_id" : 5 , "emit" : { "key" : "chocolates" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 5 } } } ... The $group uses the $accumulator operator to add the emitted count and qty and calculate the avg field: { "_id" : "chocolates" , "value" : { "count" : 3 , "qty" : 15 , "avg" : 5 } } { "_id" : "oranges" , "value" : { "count" : 7 , "qty" : 63 , "avg" : 9 } } { "_id" : "carrots" , "value" : { "count" : 2 , "qty" : 15 , "avg" : 7.5 } } { "_id" : "apples" , "value" : { "count" : 4 , "qty" : 35 , "avg" : 8.75 } } { "_id" : "pears" , "value" : { "count" : 1 , "qty" : 10 , "avg" : 10 } } Finally, the $merge writes the output to the
collection agg_alternative_4 . If an existing document has the same
key _id as the new result, the operation overwrites the existing
document. If there is no existing document with the same key, the
operation inserts the document. Tip See also: Aggregation Commands Comparison Back Troubleshoot Reduce Next Indexes
